T ACCT 210 Financial Accounting I: Users Approach to Accounting (5)
Introduces accounting concepts within the context of financial business decisions. Presents an overview of the role of accounting in the financial community and business operations. Emphasizes the external use of financial accounting for fiscal decision-making. Offered: A.
View course details in MyPlan: T ACCT 210
T ACCT 220 Financial Accounting II: The Reporting Process (5)
Introduces accounting processes that produce financial accounting reports including the balance sheet, income statement and statement of cash flows. Emphasizes how to gather, calculate, and organize accounting information into standardized reports based on the generally accepted accounting principles. Prerequisite: T ACCT 210. Offered: W.
View course details in MyPlan: T ACCT 220
T ACCT 230 Managerial Accounting (5)
Provides an introduction to management accounting concepts in the context of business decisions. Explores management accounting's roles in the decision making process and how managers and other internal uses rely on the information to make better business decisions that benefit an organization. Prerequisite: T ACCT 220, or ACCTG 215. Offered: Sp.
View course details in MyPlan: T ACCT 230
T ACCT 301 Intermediate Accounting I (5)
Concepts and principles of financial accounting. Analysis of controversies and problems related to the measurement of enterprise income and asset and liability valuation. Prerequisite: a minimum grade of 3.0 in T ACCT 210, T ACCT 220, and T ACCT 230 or a minimum grade of 3.0 in ACCTG 215 and ACCTG 225.
View course details in MyPlan: T ACCT 301
T ACCT 302 Intermediate Accounting II (5)
Continuation of 301. Concepts and principles of financial accounting. Analysis of controversies and problems related to the measurement of enterprise income and asset and liability valuation. Prerequisite: a minimum grade of 1.7 in T ACCT 301.
View course details in MyPlan: T ACCT 302
T ACCT 303 Intermediate Accounting III (5)
Continuation of 302. Concepts and principles of financial accounting. Analysis of controversies and problems related to the measurement of enterprise income and asset and liability valuation. Prerequisite: a minimum grade of 1.7 in T ACCT 302.
View course details in MyPlan: T ACCT 303
T ACCT 311 Cost Accounting (5)
Focuses on the development and use of cost data for external reporting and internal planning. Students examine cost accounting theory and procedures involving cost determination, analysis, and control through the application of such skills as allocations, budgeting, job order and process costing, and quantification of various business processes. Prerequisite: a minimum grade of 1.7 in T ACCT 301.
View course details in MyPlan: T ACCT 311
T ACCT 330 Introduction to Accounting Information Systems (5)
Presents an introduction to accounting information systems in organizations. Examines key accounting elements tied to underlying business processes. Examines issues of maintaining the integrity of accounting information systems. Integrates the accounting function with information technology. Introduces the basic structure of database systems. Prerequisite: a minimum grade of 1.7 in T ACCT 301.
View course details in MyPlan: T ACCT 330
T ACCT 401 Forensic Accounting (5)
Explores the nature, detection and prevention of fraudulent financial reporting. Investigates types of fraud, how fraud is committed, and ways to prevent fraud in corporations. Prerequisite: a minimum grade of 1.7 in T ACCT 303.
View course details in MyPlan: T ACCT 401
T ACCT 404 Advanced Financial Accounting (5)
Explores accounting and reporting for business combinations (mergers, acquisitions, partnerships and joint ventures), foreign currency transactions and translations, reporting for business segments, and corporate and partnership liquidations, and reorganizations. Emphasizes linking theory to practice through the use of current financial statement reviews. Prerequisite: a minimum grade of 1.7 in T ACCT 303.
View course details in MyPlan: T ACCT 404
T ACCT 411 Auditing Standards and Principles (5)
Intensive introduction to the attest function in society today. Analyzes the environment, the process, and the report of the public auditor. Examines potential extensions of the attest function. Prerequisite: a minimum grade of 1.7 in T ACCT 303 and T ACCT 330.
View course details in MyPlan: T ACCT 411
T ACCT 421 Tax Effects of Business Decisions (3)
Issues in taxation, including tax considerations in business decision making, tax effects of business transactions, taxation of compensation, fringe benefits, capital gains, fixed asset transactions, disposition of business distribution from corporations. Prerequisite: a minimum grade of 1.7 in T ACCT 302.
View course details in MyPlan: T ACCT 421
T ACCT 431 Financial Statement Analysis (5)
Enhances the understanding of accounting principles and techniques used to prepare financial statements, and methods an analyst might employ to increase the relevance of financial information. Demonstrates the use of financial statement data in the valuation of firms. Prerequisite: T BUS 350.
View course details in MyPlan: T ACCT 431
T ACCT 451 Individual Income Taxation (5)
Covers US Federal income taxation for individuals, including compliance requirements and the role of taxation in personal decisions. Topics include: wage, business and investment income; personal and personal business deductions; and property transactions. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 1.7 in T ACCT 301.
View course details in MyPlan: T ACCT 451
T ACCT 453 Advanced Taxation (5)
Examines US Federal income taxation of business entities, including corporations, partnerships and subchapter S corporations. Topics include: the tax effects of entity formation, distribution of profits, and entity dissolution; and related impact on individual taxpayers. Prerequisite: a minimum grade of 2.5 in T ACCT 451.
View course details in MyPlan: T ACCT 453
T ACCT 468 Cooperative Field Experience (1-5, max. 5)
Provides opportunities to gain experience and apply concepts taught in the accounting concentration. Involves learning skills and applying knowledge through practical experience working cooperatively with professionals in the field. Requires application and completed employer contract with faculty permission. Prerequisite: a minimum grade of 1.7 in T ACCT 301.
View course details in MyPlan: T ACCT 468
T ACCT 469 Undergraduate Research in Accounting (1-5, max. 5)
Provides students opportunity to explore a specific accounting topic, idea, project, or research interest that extends previous knowledge and broadens experience. Proposals and course criteria are developed in cooperation with specific faculty members prior to course registration. Prerequisite: a minimum grade of 1.7 in T ACCT 302.
View course details in MyPlan: T ACCT 469
T ACCT 471 Internal Auditing (3)
Independent appraisal function established within an organization. Role and nature of internal auditing; intensive review of internal control; management effectiveness audits; and financial audits from the point of view of the internal auditor. Prerequisite: a minimum grade of 1.7 in T ACCT 411.
View course details in MyPlan: T ACCT 471
T ACCT 480 Accounting for Not-for-Profit Organizations (5)
Explores the unique accounting models used in reporting the financial results of governmental and not-for-profit entities. Examines financial reporting under these models from the user perspective, while cultivating an understanding of the accounting system requirements needed to meet this perspective. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 1.7 T ACCT 303.
View course details in MyPlan: T ACCT 480
T ACCT 485 International Accounting (5)
Enhances understanding of international accounting issues. Examines the impacts of accounting diversity on global capital flows, and explores the convergence of global accounting standards. Covers accounting for changing prices, goodwill and other intangibles, as well as social and environmental rep0rting, geographic segment disclosure practices, and financial reporting in developing economics.
View course details in MyPlan: T ACCT 485
T ACCT 490 Special Topics in Accounting (1-6, max. 6)
View course details in MyPlan: T ACCT 490
T ACCT 500 Advanced Topics in Financial Accounting (4)
Investigates advanced accounting issues related to business combinations, foreign currency transactions, financial derivatives, segment and interim reporting, intercompany transactions, SEC regulation and reporting requirements, and revenue recognition. Emphasizes the ability to examine related accounting principles, assess their impact on financial statements, and identify areas of potential misstatements. Prerequisite: Masters in Accounting students only.
View course details in MyPlan: T ACCT 500
T ACCT 501 Financial Accounting Theory (4)
Examines accounting theory, such as the role of accounting in valuation of securities, performance evaluation, and accounting standards setting. Investigates the scope and limitations of "generally accepted accounting principles," with special emphasis on the objectives of financial reporting. Prerequisite: Masters in Accounting students only.
View course details in MyPlan: T ACCT 501
T ACCT 502 Financial Statement Analysis (4)
Examines the analytical tools and research techniques necessary to understand and interpret financial statements for the purposes of making economic decisions from a user's perspective. Prerequisite: Masters in Accounting students only.
View course details in MyPlan: T ACCT 502
T ACCT 510 Business Regulation, Research, and Communication (4)
Investigates key issues in the current regulatory business environment. Examines statutory and common law precedent of issues. Examines optimization of results to those key issues evaluated. Emphasizes the development of advanced communication skills pertaining to research regarding regulator issues. Prerequisite: Masters in Accounting students only.
View course details in MyPlan: T ACCT 510
T ACCT 511 Planning, Control, and Performance Evaluation (4)
Investigates the use of cost accounting information and techniques to support decision-makers as they develop, implement, evaluate, and modify organizational strategy. Examines and evaluates quantitative models and behavioral aspects regarding the use of cost information in decision making. Prerequisite: Masters in Accounting students only.
View course details in MyPlan: T ACCT 511
T ACCT 513 Managerial Accounting for Decision Making and Control (4)
Introduces the concepts, theories, and practices managers use for decision making and cost control. Discusses the principles and methods of accounting used in reporting information to management that is needed within an organization and how this information can be used by managers to plan, control, and make decisions. Prerequisite: T BUS 503.
View course details in MyPlan: T ACCT 513
T ACCT 520 International Accounting Seminar (4)
Enhances understanding of international accounting issues. Examines the impacts of accounting diversity on global capital flows, and explores the convergence of global accounting standards. Covers accounting for changing prices, goodwill and other intangibles, as well as social and environmental reporting, geographic segment disclosure practices, and financial reporting in emerging markets. Prerequisite: T BUS 503.
View course details in MyPlan: T ACCT 520
T ACCT 521 International Accounting (4)
Examines the causes and effects of global accounting diversity. Investigates issues related to the preparation and use of financial reports across borders. Investigates selected financial reporting and disclosure issues including social responsibility reporting. Emphasizes the nature and importance of emerging capital markets, and managerial accounting issues related to global business. Prerequisite: Masters in Accounting students only.
View course details in MyPlan: T ACCT 521
T ACCT 525 Forensic Accounting Seminar (4)
Explores the nature, detection and prevention of fraudulent financial reporting. Investigates types of fraud, how fraud is committed, and ways to prevent fraud in corporations. Prerequisite: T BUS 503.
View course details in MyPlan: T ACCT 525
T ACCT 531 Financial Statement Analysis (4)
Provides analytical tools and research techniques necessary to understand and interpret financial statements. Prerequisite: T BUS 503.
View course details in MyPlan: T ACCT 531
T ACCT 535 Taxation of Business Entities (4)
Investigates the effects of income taxes on business strategy. Examine the interaction of income tax considerations with non-tax considerations in business decision-making. Prerequisite: Masters in Accounting students only.
View course details in MyPlan: T ACCT 535
T ACCT 536 Tax Research and Communications (4)
Examines issues in conducting tax research. Investigates aspects of the research process, including how to find, read, and evaluate primary and secondary sources of tax law. Emphasizes development of advanced communication skills relating to the expression of research findings in taxation. Prerequisite: Masters in Accounting students only.
View course details in MyPlan: T ACCT 536
T ACCT 540 Advanced Auditing (4)
Examines key issues regarding generally accepted auditing standards, the role of the auditor, professional conduct and ethics, reporting responsibilities, risk assessment, internal control, evidential matter, management fraud, forensic accounting, and auditing of social reports. Prerequisite: Masters in Accounting students only.
View course details in MyPlan: T ACCT 540
T ACCT 550 Governmental and Not-for-Profit Accounting (4)
Investigates accounting issues for state and local governments, public and private colleges and universities, hospital and health care providers, and other not-for-profit organizations. Examines characteristics that distinguish governmental and not-for-profit entities from for-profit entities. Investigates fund structure and financial reporting issues for various kinds of not-for-profit institutions. Prerequisite: Masters in Accounting students only.
View course details in MyPlan: T ACCT 550
T ACCT 590 Special Topics in Accounting (1-5, max. 5)
Advanced special topic offerings designed to respond to faculty and student interests and needs.
View course details in MyPlan: T ACCT 590
T ACCT 600 Independent Study or Research (1-5, max. 5)
Provides an opportunity to work independently exploring specific accounting topics in greater depth. Credit/no-credit only.
View course details in MyPlan: T ACCT 600
T ACCT 601 Internship (4/5)
Provides students with practical knowledge and experience in an accounting environment. Permits students to develop their own strategic plan under faculty guidance. Permits student to preform field work utilizing the skills developed in classroom. Culminates with a research paper expanding on previously developed accounting knowledge. Prerequisite: Masters in Accounting students only.
TBECON 220 Introduction to Microeconomic Theory (5) I&S, QSR
Introduces microeconomic theory applied to individual decision-making, analysis of markets, and the role of prices. Specific topics include consumer demand, production, exchange, resource allocation, and government intervention.
View course details in MyPlan: TBECON 220
TBECON 221 Introduction to Macroeconomic Theory (5) I&S, QSR
Involves the study and analysis of the aggregate economy. Topics include the determination of national income, inflation, business fluctuations, unemployment, monetary systems, the federal budget, and international trade.
View course details in MyPlan: TBECON 221
TBECON 420 Intermediate Microeconomic Theory (5) QSR
Applies tools of intermediate microeconomic theory to issues of particular interest to business students. Topics include market processes, consumer theory, firm behavior in competitive and imperfectly competitive markets, product pricing, and strategic behavior. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.5 in TMATH 124, MATH 112, or MATH 124 or grade of 1.7 in T BUS 301.
View course details in MyPlan: TBECON 420
TBECON 421 Intermediate Macroeconomic Theory (5)
Focuses on the use of intermediate economic theory to understand how financial markets are affected by macroeconomic variables. Specific emphasis is placed on international markets and how to assess the impact of difference macroeconomic policies. Prerequisite: TBECON 420.
View course details in MyPlan: TBECON 421
TBECON 422 Econometrics (5)
Examines the statistical tools that are used to study financial and economic data, including multiple regression, regression diagnostics, time series models, stationarity, and cointegration. Applies these tools using modern statistical software. Prerequisite: TBECON 421, which may be taken concurrently.
View course details in MyPlan: TBECON 422
TBECON 423 FINANCIAL MARKETS AND INSTITUTIONS (5)
Examines the economic role of modern financial institutions and their relationship to the money and capital markets of developed economies. Includes the financial system, the Federal Reserve System, monetary policy, international financial relationships, and interest rate theory. Prerequisite: Minimum grade of 2.5 in TMATH 124, MATH 112, or MATH 124 or 1.7 in TBUS 301.
T BGEN 111 Freshman Leadership Seminar (2) J. LAWLESS
Introduces student to the core competencies of communication, teamwork, and ethics. Emphasizes service learning and experiential application of concepts through leadership projects. Promotes cohort identity and socialization for incoming freshman in the Milgard School of Business Freshman Direct Program. Offered: W.
View course details in MyPlan: T BGEN 111
T BGEN 200 Introduction to Statistics in Business (5) NW, QSR
Introduces the major principles and practices utilized in basic statistical analysis. Focuses on descriptive statistics, inferential statistics, probabilistic reasoning, correlation, regression, and hypothesis testing. Prerequisite: either TMATH 098 or minimum score of 35 on ACC-CL placement test.
View course details in MyPlan: T BGEN 200
T BGEN 210 Computer-Based Business Problem Solving (5)
Explores uses of Excel to analyze and solve business problems through manipulation and analysis of data. Reviews pivot tables, what-if analysis, solver, and Excel-based management analyses, such as optimization, data mining, customer analysis, data organization, and presentation.
View course details in MyPlan: T BGEN 210
T BGEN 212 Introduction to Corporate Responsibility (5) I&S
Introduces the tools used in the business world today to engage in socially responsible business practice. Provides a framework for integrating corporate responsibility practice into the overall strategy of an organization, and explores current trends in corporate responsibility. Offered: W.
View course details in MyPlan: T BGEN 212
T BGEN 218 Introduction to Business Law (5) I&S
Explores the impact of the changing legal environment on business decision making. Examines legal issues that organizations confront to establish appropriate strategies for effective functioning and developing compliance guidelines. Utilized specific tools to access legal resources for proactively recognizing, framing and analyzing business opportunities, and problems in the legal environment.
View course details in MyPlan: T BGEN 218
T BGEN 311 Professional Business Writing (5)
Addresses various techniques of business writing to improve students' overall skill set in written communication. Explores standard components of business documents and rhetorical strategies for organizing and presenting information in various written formats to achieve business objectives. Covers various forms of business writing, including standard correspondence, proposals, and formal reports.
View course details in MyPlan: T BGEN 311
T BGEN 312 Communicating Corporate Responsibility (5) I&S
Provides the theory and skills to analyze and assess the corporate responsibility communication issues in a company, and create a strategic corporate communications plan based on that assessment. Develops the understanding of corporate responsibility stories and storytelling in a compelling way that engages and informs stakeholders. Prerequisite: T BGEN 212. Offered: A.
View course details in MyPlan: T BGEN 312
T BGEN 322 Measuring Corporate Responsibility (5) I&S
Provides the framework and skills to analyze and assess the environmental, social, and governance metrics and measurements in a firm. Develops the skills to evaluate those metrics and create a meaningful corporate social responsibility (CSR) report for an organization. Prerequisite: T BGEN 212. Offered: Sp.
View course details in MyPlan: T BGEN 322
T BGEN 412 Ethical Issues in Business (5) VLPA
Explores the moral principles and community standards by which businesses are judged and assesses the impact management decisions have on the business and on society. Focuses on the conflict between the economic performance of the firm and the social performance of the firm.
View course details in MyPlan: T BGEN 412
T BGEN 465 Research in Contemporary Organizational Issues (5)
Introduces students to academic research and provides an opportunity for intensive study of an organizational issue. Emphasis is placed on understanding the research process and applying these concepts in a research paper. Students may choose a topic from any organizational field. Emphasizes communication, strategic thinking, and integrated business knowledge.
View course details in MyPlan: T BGEN 465
T BGEN 468 International Business Field Experience (5-10, max. 10)
Provides opportunities to gain actual international field experience. Involves applying knowledge and skills learned in business, international business and/or international management classes through an actual internship opportunity in another nation. Application and International Business faculty advisor's approval required. Prerequisite: Business core; either T MGMT 478 or T MGMT 480.
View course details in MyPlan: T BGEN 468
T BGEN 490 Special Topics (1-5, max. 15)
T BUS 101 Introduction to Business (5) I&S
View course details in MyPlan: T BUS 101
T BUS 102 Business and Society (5) I&S
Facilitates a better understanding of the complex relationship between private enterprise and society at large; how business influences society and is influenced by society. Focuses on the obligations business has to its nonmarket stakeholders.
View course details in MyPlan: T BUS 102
T BUS 300 Managing Organizations (5) I&S
Examines the profession of management and nature of organizations. Focuses on the key managerial functions and organizational processes needed to plan, organize, lead and control contemporary organizations. Activities provide opportunities to improve communication, strategic planning, teamwork, social responsibility, ethical decision making, and professional capacities. Prerequisite: either T CORE 101, TWRT 112, TWRT 121, TWRT 211, TWRT 291, TWRT 331, TWRT 431,ENGL 111, ENGL 121, ENGL 131, ENGL 182, ENGL 197, ENGL 198, ENGL 199, B WRIT 134, or B WRIT 135
View course details in MyPlan: T BUS 300
T BUS 301 Quantitative Analysis for Business (5) NW, QSR
Provides statistical tools to analyze business problems and enhance decision-making. Utilizes an applied approach to organize, explore, and analyze data, design experiments, and surveys, understand estimations and significance tests, and use quantitative methods. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in TMATH 110, T BGEN 200, QMETH 201, STAT 220, or STAT 311.
View course details in MyPlan: T BUS 301
T BUS 310 Effective Managerial Communications (5) VLPA/I&S
Focuses on oral and written communication skills in an organizational environment. Provides opportunities to communicate clearly and concisely in writing, make persuasive presentations, negotiate effectively, listen to the ideas and opinions of others, provide and receive constructive feedback, explore new communication technologies, and understand the impact that globalization has on organizational communication. Prerequisite: either T CORE 101, TWRT 112, TWRT 121, TWRT 211, TWRT 291, TWRT 331, TWRT 431,ENGL 111, ENGL 121, ENGL 131, ENGL 182, ENGL 197, ENGL 198, ENGL 199, B WRIT 134, or B WRIT 135
View course details in MyPlan: T BUS 310
T BUS 320 Introduction to Marketing Management (5) I&S
Introduces the major principles and practices that are used by marketing managers in analyzing marketing problems and developing appropriate solutions. Examines how marketing operates within the global, social, and economic environment. Prerequisite: either T CORE 101, TWRT 112, TWRT 121, TWRT 211, TWRT 291, TWRT 331, TWRT 431,ENGL 111, ENGL 121, ENGL 131, ENGL 182, ENGL 197, ENGL 198, ENGL 199, B WRIT 134, or B WRIT 135.
View course details in MyPlan: T BUS 320
T BUS 330 Introduction to Information Technology (5)
Introduces techniques that managers use to locate, organize, distribute, and use information for decision making and strategic advantage. Addresses tools for managing information, including computer hardware, software, telecommunication networks, and various information system components. Includes a computer laboratory component in which students address organizational and managerial information requirements. Prerequisite: either T CORE 101, TWRT 112, TWRT 121, TWRT 211, TWRT 291, TWRT 331, TWRT 431,ENGL 111, ENGL 121, ENGL 131, ENGL 182, ENGL 197, ENGL 198, ENGL 199, B WRIT 134, or B WRIT 135.
View course details in MyPlan: T BUS 330
T BUS 350 Business Finance (5)
Focuses on understanding the sources, uses, costs, and control of funds in business organizations. Key topics include managing cash flow, evaluating the time value of money, capital budgeting, evaluating stocks and bonds, and determining the financing mix. Explores the organizational, ethical, and economic consequences of financial decisions. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 1.7 in T BUS 301, or minimum grade of 2.0 in either TMATH 124, MATH 112, or MATH 124
View course details in MyPlan: T BUS 350
T BUS 400 Business Policy and Strategic Management (5)
Examines policy making and the role of strategy in the general management of a business organization. Students will learn strategy formulation, implementation, and application in complex situations. Prerequisite: Minimum grade of 1.7 in T BUS 300; T BUS 301; T BUS 310; T BUS 320; and T BUS 350. T BUS 330, or T ACCT 330 may be taken concurrently with T BUS 400.
View course details in MyPlan: T BUS 400
T BUS 468 Internship (1-5, max. 10)
Provides opportunity to gain experience in a business organization to apply and experience concepts taught in the traditional classroom. Develops links between the community and the classroom. Prerequisite: Any three of T BUS 300 T BUS 301, T BUS 310, T BUS 320, T BUS 330, T BUS 350, or T ACCT 330.
View course details in MyPlan: T BUS 468
T BUS 469 Undergraduate Research (1-5, max. 15)
Provides opportunity to explore a specific management or marketing topic, idea, project, or research interest that extends previous knowledge and broadens experience. Proposals and course criteria are developed in cooperation with specific faculty members prior to course registration.
View course details in MyPlan: T BUS 469
T BUS 490 Special Topics (1-5, max. 15)
View course details in MyPlan: T BUS 490
T BUS 500 Quantitative Methods in Business (4)
Examines statistical concepts including probability and probability distributions. Develops an understanding of sampling and estimation procedures, hypothesis testing, and inference. Topics include correlation and regression analysis, and analysis of time series.
View course details in MyPlan: T BUS 500
T BUS 501 Financial Theory (4)
Examines financial theory including asset valuation, capital markets, and the basic terminology of corporate finance. Focuses on time value of money, equity valuation, cost of capital, and basics of risk management as essential tools.
View course details in MyPlan: T BUS 501
T BUS 503 Financial Reporting and Analysis (4)
Focuses on the process by which firms report economic information to users outside the firm (e.g., stockholders, potential investors, creditors, regulatory agencies). Introduces the concepts of financial accounting including preparation and analysis of financial statements.
View course details in MyPlan: T BUS 503
T BUS 504 Marketing Management (4)
Explores the processes by which organizations create value for customers. Focuses on marketing decision making, including opportunity analysis, positioning strategies, product development/management, distribution channels, pricing tactics, and integrated marketing communications. Enables students to engage in target market selection and marketing program design.
View course details in MyPlan: T BUS 504
T BUS 505 Information Systems (4)
Examines key management issues related to the effective use of information systems for operational support, tactical decision making, and strategic activities in various business environments. Uses computer-based assignments to provide an experiential understanding of the issues involved.
View course details in MyPlan: T BUS 505
T BUS 506 Strategic Management (4)
Focuses on the strategy development process in organizations and on how to create sustainable competitive advantage. Examines the strategic position of organizations, strategic choices for the future, and how one can best translate strategies into action.
View course details in MyPlan: T BUS 506
T BUS 507 Individual and Team Dynamics (4)
Examines individual and group dynamics in business organizations to enhance understanding of key issues associated with managing people. Focuses on practice and conceptual training to hone skills in problem definition and problem solving; analysis of organizational dynamics; and managerial action that enhances individual, group, and organizational performance.
View course details in MyPlan: T BUS 507
T BUS 508 Integrated Systems (4)
Integrates material learned in the MBA core through immersion in systems theory. Learn to view organizations as open systems and evaluate consequences of business decisions. Uses online simulation to demonstrate the interplay of various subsystems in organizations while competitive forces create an environment of ongoing change.
View course details in MyPlan: T BUS 508
T BUS 512 Introduction to Health Policy (4)
Examines selected topics from literature to identify the structure of healthcare systems; need and access to care; availability and organization of health resources; and quality assessment and improvement. Identifies contemporary policy issues as case studies; and examines the strengths and weaknesses of healthcare system. Offered: S.
View course details in MyPlan: T BUS 512
T BUS 520 Microeconomics for Managers (4)
Examines ways to apply tools of intermediate microeconomic theory to issues of interest to managers. Topics include market processes, consumer theory, firm behavior in competitive and imperfectly competitive markets, product pricing, and strategic behavior.
View course details in MyPlan: T BUS 520
T BUS 530 Operations Management in Action (4)
Examines essential topics in operations management, including operations strategy and planning; process and service design; supply chain and inventory management; quality management and statistical quality control; and forecasting and scheduling. Emphasizes concepts and skills essential for operations management in manufacturing and service firms from a strategic, operational, and analytic perspective. Offered: W.
View course details in MyPlan: T BUS 530
T BUS 569 Analytical Research (2-4, max. 4)
Provides an opportunity to work independently exploring specific business topics in greater depth. The students must develop a research proposal and make arrangements with a faculty member to supervise the project prior to course registration. Prerequisite: Tacoma MBA student and permission of instructor.
View course details in MyPlan: T BUS 569
T BUS 570 Organization Change (4)
Provides a multiple perspectives approach to managing change. Examines competing perspectives on change stemming from both change management approaches and organizational development approaches. Considers various change methodologies, and explores examples of best practice in change management. Experiential approach encourages the development of skills in change management.
View course details in MyPlan: T BUS 570
T BUS 590 Special Topics in Business (1-4, max. 12)
Advanced offerings designed to respond to faculty and student interests and needs.
T FIN 420 Visual Basic Programming of Excel-based Financial Models (5)
Develops Visual Basic financial model applications in the Excel spreadsheet. Includes a review of Excel, Visual Basic fundamentals, Excel financial functionalities, and extending Excel with Visual Basic. Applicable for students with a financial or information systems background. Prerequisite: either T BUS 330 or T ACCT 330.
View course details in MyPlan: T FIN 420
T FIN 422 Investment Valuation (5)
Examines the valuation of financial assets including stocks, bonds, and businesses. Focuses on discounted cash flow, risk, market efficiency, dividend discount, and relative valuation models. Prerequisite: T BUS 301; T BUS 350.
View course details in MyPlan: T FIN 422
T FIN 425 Finance and Investment (5)
Introduces all facets of finance and investment, including personal financial planning, budgeting, and investment. Emphasizes developing strategies and managing finance and investments in an efficient, profitable manner to accomplish financial goals. Prerequisite: T BUS 301; T BUS 350.
View course details in MyPlan: T FIN 425
T FIN 426 Portfolio Management (5)
Focuses on in-depth analysis of investing, portfolio analysis, and financial markets. Students analyze and restructure balance sheets, create and manage a stock portfolio, investigate domestic and international financial markets, explore the local income property real estate market, and spend time in a local brokerage house. Prerequisite: T BUS 350.
View course details in MyPlan: T FIN 426
T FIN 427 Derivatives (5)
Examines the characteristics and valuation of derivative instruments including forward and futures contracts, options and swaps. Focuses on the role of these instruments in risk management and portfolio management. Prerequisite: T BUS 301; T BUS 350.
View course details in MyPlan: T FIN 427
T FIN 430 Intermediate Business Finance (5)
Focuses on the financial management of business organizations. Topics include capital structure determination, dividend policy, working capital management, and corporate risk management. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 1.7 in T BUS 350.
View course details in MyPlan: T FIN 430
T FIN 431 Financial Statement Analysis (5)
Enhances the understanding of accounting principles and techniques used to prepare financial statements. Examines the methods analysts can employ to increase the relevance of financial information. Demonstrates the use of financial statement data for analyzing firms. For non-accounting students only. Prerequisite: T TBUS 350.
View course details in MyPlan: T FIN 431
T FIN 521 Macroeconomics for Managers (4)
Focuses on the use of intermediate macroeconomic theory to understand how different sectors of the economy are inter-related. Emphasizes international markets and how to assess the impact on firms of different macroeconomic policies and events.
View course details in MyPlan: T FIN 521
T FIN 522 Investment Valuation (4)
Examines the valuation of financial assets including stocks, bonds, and businesses. Focuses on discounted cash flow, risk, market efficiency, dividend discount models, and relative valuation models. Prerequisite: T BUS 501.
View course details in MyPlan: T FIN 522
T FIN 526 Portfolio Management (4)
Provides an understanding of investor decision making under uncertainty, and how portfolios may be used to reduce risk. Explores the portfolio management process including construction, revision, and protection of both fixed income and equity portfolios. Covers performance evaluation and risk management. Prerequisite: T BUS 501.
View course details in MyPlan: T FIN 526
T FIN 530 Corporate Finance (4)
Examines important issues faced by corporate managers, including long-term financing, management of short-term assets, short-term financing, and corporate risk management.
T MGMT 312 Captivate Your Audience: Presentation Skills for Success (3/5) VLPA
Combines knowledge and experience in the preparation, development, and delivery of public presentations. Emphasizes enhancing essential speaking skills, including audience analysis, the arrangement and organization of material, speaking mode/style, the use of visual aids, and the use of rhetorical techniques and principles.
View course details in MyPlan: T MGMT 312
T MGMT 314 Interpersonal Skills (5) VLPA/I&S
Emphasizes interpersonal dynamics in the workplace and improving interpersonal skills. Topics include major dimensions of interpersonal communication, interpersonal decision making an strategic analysis o interpersonal dynamics in organizations. Covers making better choices in interpersonal communication, developing positive working relationships in organizations, and improving quality of workplace outcomes.
View course details in MyPlan: T MGMT 314
T MGMT 418 Legal Issues for Business (3-5, max. 10) I&S
Explores the impact of the changing legal environment on managerial decision making and issues that business managers confront to establish appropriate managerial strategies to function effectively and develop compliance guidelines. Utilizes specific tools to access legal resources for proactively recognizing, framing, and analyzing opportunities and problems and developing situations. Prerequisite: either T CORE 101, TWRT 112, or ENGL 131.
View course details in MyPlan: T MGMT 418
T MGMT 420 Managing Corporate Responsibility (5)
Focuses on strategic and dynamic issues that are key to building high-performing organizations with a sense of ethics, civic engagement and social responsibility. Provides a theoretical and practical understanding of what role organizations should play in society. Prerequisite: T BUS 300; T BUS 320.
View course details in MyPlan: T MGMT 420
T MGMT 430 Managing the Workforce (5)
Focuses on managing employees as a human resource function in organizations. Examines skills important for attracting, developing, and maintaining an effective workforce. Explores planning, forecasting, job analysis, training, performance appraisal, wage and salary administration, compensation, legal requirements, and disciplinary functions. Prerequisite: T BUS 300, T BUS 320.
View course details in MyPlan: T MGMT 430
T MGMT 433 Managing Organizational Diversity (5) I&S
Focuses on key behavioral, social and organizational requisites needed to cultivate competency in managing diversity. Provides experiential opportunities to discover and improve understanding about the self and others. Key interests include skills and strategies needed to manage and support increasingly diverse organizations. Prerequisite: T BUS 300; T BUS 310.
View course details in MyPlan: T MGMT 433
T MGMT 452 The Dynamics of Leadership (5) I&S
Examines leadership as a process by focusing on a repertoire of practical and theoretical leadership principles. Examines leaders and their complex roles in managing organizational issues. Provides opportunity to learn and apply leadership skills.
View course details in MyPlan: T MGMT 452
T MGMT 455 Managing and Motivating Work Teams (5) I&S
Concentrates on interpersonal and management skills needed to create and maintain effective groups. Focuses on interpersonal skills assessment, conflict management, interdependency, collaborative relationships, norms, feedback, reward systems, goal setting, and self-management.
View course details in MyPlan: T MGMT 455
T MGMT 457 Negotiation and Conflict Management (5) I&S
Explores the art and science of reaching agreements in competitive and collaborative situations where two or more parties are interdependent. Addresses negotiation in the organizational context. Emphasizes developing skills in situation assessment, negotiation planning, distributive and integrative bargaining.
View course details in MyPlan: T MGMT 457
T MGMT 465 Board Governance I (2) I&S
Introduces nonprofit board membership and governance. Students serve as apprentices with nonprofit organizations and act as nonvoting board members. Provides experiences in gathering and assessing information and materials related to nonprofit governance practices. Prerequisite: either T CORE 101, TWRT 112, or ENGL 131. Offered: W.
View course details in MyPlan: T MGMT 465
T MGMT 466 Board Governance II (5) I&S
Examines theories of nonprofit governance related to planning, organization design, leadership, financial management, and culture that are applicable to both nonprofits and businesses. Students apply this knowledge to their continuing apprenticeship experience. Builds skills in teamwork, communication, meeting management, assessment, analysis, and providing feedback. Prerequisite: T MGMT 465. Offered: Sp.
View course details in MyPlan: T MGMT 466
T MGMT 474 Entrepreneurship: Idea Development (5)
Explores techniques used to develop business opportunities. Examines the heart of entrepreneurship: the idea. Focuses on idea development, emphasizing the strategic feasibility of the business idea. Builds critical thinking skills and encourages professional communication skills via student projects and class activities. Prerequisite: 1.7 in T BUS 300, 1.7 in T BUS 320; 1.7 in T BUS 350. Instructors: Perryman Offered: A.
View course details in MyPlan: T MGMT 474
T MGMT 475 Creating, Leading, and Implementing Change (5)
Explores the repertoire of concepts, ideas, tools, and techniques for understanding the dynamics of change and how successful leaders learn to create, implement, and manage change. Provides opportunities to examine and experience change management in contemporary organizations. Prerequisite: T BUS 300, T BUS 310.
View course details in MyPlan: T MGMT 475
T MGMT 478 International Business (5)
Introduces the main issues concerning international economic relations. Covers topics in the political, economic, and cultural analysis of the global environment and examines the managerial responses appropriate for international business. Prerequisite: T BUS 300; T BUS 320.
View course details in MyPlan: T MGMT 478
T MGMT 480 International Management (5)
Introduces the main issues concerning international management. Covers topics related to how managers pursue the global objectives of their organizations, including international strategy, modes of market entry, organization, staffing, and other cross-cultural management issues. Prerequisite: T BUS 300.
View course details in MyPlan: T MGMT 480
T MGMT 490 Special Topics in Management (5, max. 15)
View course details in MyPlan: T MGMT 490
T MGMT 512 Business Ethics and Social Responsibility (4)
Focuses on the ethical and moral challenges that are an everyday part of organizational life for managers. Addresses the societal consequences of managerial decisions and organizational actions. Considers global variance in ethical standards and impact of ethical behavior on organizational performance.
View course details in MyPlan: T MGMT 512
T MGMT 516 Business Communication (4)
Explores the functions, elements and types of communication that are important in business settings. Promotes understanding of important communication dynamics, and enhances the ability to communicate strategically and professionally in organizations.
View course details in MyPlan: T MGMT 516
T MGMT 518 Business Law (4)
Examines legal issues in a business context. Considers law as a strategic tool to help achieve core business objectives, create value, and manage risk. Addresses legal aspects of business management, agreements and relationships including: contract, torts, product liability, employment, intellectual property, agency and business organizations.
View course details in MyPlan: T MGMT 518
T MGMT 520 Managing Corporate Responsibility (4)
Focuses on strategic and dynamic issues that are key to building high-performing organizations with a sense of ethics, civic engagement and social responsibility. Provides a theoretical and practical understanding of what role organizations should play in society.
View course details in MyPlan: T MGMT 520
T MGMT 530 Organization Design (4)
Focuses on the use of organizational design to create successful and sustainable organizations. Addresses organizing work, leveraging knowledge, developing processes, and supporting values to achieve the organization's goals. Examines how managers can achieve alignment of structure, culture, people and processes under conditions of change.
View course details in MyPlan: T MGMT 530
T MGMT 532 Strategic Human Resources Management (4)
Addresses the design of human resource management systems to create and sustain competitive advantage. Focuses on how managers can diagnose their organization's alignment with competitive realities and develop human resource systems that produce the levels of commitment, coordination, and competence required by the organization's competitive strategy.
View course details in MyPlan: T MGMT 532
T MGMT 536 Technology Management (4)
Explores the causes and consequences of technological change and innovation at the level of the economy, industry, and organization. Examines issues regarding the management of technology and innovation, including market entry timing, new product development, corporate venturing, licensing, outsourcing, and strategic alliances.
View course details in MyPlan: T MGMT 536
T MGMT 553 Leadership in a Changing World (4)
Emphasizes knowledge and skills managers need to help organizations anticipate and adapt effectively to change. Focuses on leadership and conflict management styles, planning strategically and managing for change, and dealing with conflict created by change. Explores the impact of change on individuals, teams, and organizations.
View course details in MyPlan: T MGMT 553
T MGMT 557 Negotiations (4)
Focuses on negotiation as an essential tool for managers to make deals and resolve disputes. Key topics include negotiation planning and strategy, distributive and integrative bargaining, and communication and power. Emphasis is placed on research-based knowledge and skill acquisition through participation in role-plays.
View course details in MyPlan: T MGMT 557
T MGMT 574 New Business Ventures (4)
Examines the legal, financial, strategic, and managerial challenges of creating and operating new businesses. Topics include building an entrepreneurial firm, developing start-up strategy, creating business plans, obtaining venture financing, and managing a growing company.
T MKTG 348 Social Marketing (5) I&S
Focuses on the preservation or enhancement of individual and social well-being. Applies marketing principles within a social context to public agencies and nonprofit institutions. Prerequisite: T BUS 320.
View course details in MyPlan: T MKTG 348
T MKTG 355 Professional Sales (5)
Examines the modern way to sell via a relationship process, emphasizing skills for success as a field sales representative. Analyzes the steps in the selling process in detail. Encourages competencies in flexibility, strategic thinking, and communication. Prerequisite: T BUS 300; T BUS 320.
View course details in MyPlan: T MKTG 355
T MKTG 425 Advertising (5)
Explores the creative processes used in the field of advertising. Topics include advertising copywriting, art direction, production and media selection. Provides exposure to advertising theory with a focus on practical application in the industry. Emphasizes problem-solving, communication, strategic thinking and teamwork skills.
View course details in MyPlan: T MKTG 425
T MKTG 430 Retailing (5) VLPA, QSR
Examines how retailers run the business. Investigates retail store location, merchandise management, store layout, buying, stock control, customer service and relationship management, pricing, coordination of store activities, policies and systems, and promotion programs. Emphasizes strategic and operational complexities of retailing.
View course details in MyPlan: T MKTG 430
T MKTG 440 Business Marketing (5)
Examines process by which businesses are served by other businesses. Includes analyzing existing business relationships to identify problems and opportunities, developing and modifying products, establishing and managing relationships, setting prices, and undertaking promotional efforts, especially personal selling. Presents a strategic focus from a managerial perspective. Communication, strategic thinking, problem-solving and flexibility skills. Prerequisite: T BUS 320.
View course details in MyPlan: T MKTG 440
T MKTG 445 Service Marketing (5)
Examines new marketing tools and ideas specifically applicable within the service industry where organizations require a distinctive approach to the development and execution of marketing strategies. Emphasizes strategic thinking, problem solving, and communication skills. Prerequisite: T BUS 320.
View course details in MyPlan: T MKTG 445
T MKTG 450 Consumer Marketing (5) I&S
Examines social science and consumer behavior research for concepts and principles that marketers can use to better understand customers and meet their needs. Applies insights gained from the disciplines of sociology, anthropology and psychology to real-world marketing situations. Emphasizes problem-solving, communication and strategic thinking skills.
View course details in MyPlan: T MKTG 450
T MKTG 460 Research Methods (5)
Explains the research process including problem definition, research design, questionnaire construction, sample selection, interviewing and data analysis. Involves field application of course knowledge along with written and oral reports. Emphasizes problem solving, flexibility and communication skills. Prerequisite: T BUS 320.
View course details in MyPlan: T MKTG 460
T MKTG 471 Ecommerce (5)
Examines how Internet technologies transform the conduct of business both within and between organizations. Introduces the technical architecture and business principles that underlie the ecommerce phenomenon. Explores the implications of the evolving technologies for managerial decision making, organizational strategies, industry structures, and public policy. Prerequisite: T BUS 320; T BUS 330.
View course details in MyPlan: T MKTG 471
T MKTG 475 Marketing Strategy (5)
Provides a comprehensive framework for the development of competitive marketing strategies that achieve organizational goals and objectives and build competitive advantage. Includes all the activities and procedures necessary to develop a marketing plan, including the implementation, evaluation, and control of a firm's marketing dynamics. Prerequisite: T BUS 320.
View course details in MyPlan: T MKTG 475
T MKTG 480 International Marketing (5)
Extends basic marketing knowledge by examining the marketing strategies and tactics of companies that do business across borders. Topics include how firms research, identify, and enter international markets, and develop global marketing strategies. Prerequisite: T BUS 320.
View course details in MyPlan: T MKTG 480
T MKTG 490 Special Topics in Marketing (5, max. 15)
Prerequisite: minimum grade of 1.7 in T BUS 320.
View course details in MyPlan: T MKTG 490
T MKTG 520 Services Marketing (4)
Explores the unique challenges of managing services and delivering service quality that lead to customer satisfaction. Examines methodologies available for measuring, analyzing and designing services. Investigates the role of marketing in attracting customers and shaping customer expectations. Prerequisite: TBUS 504.
View course details in MyPlan: T MKTG 520
T MKTG 560 Managerial and Marketing Research (4)
Examines research design, data collection, and data interpretation as critical elements of diagnosing organizational, managerial, and marketing problems. Provides practical and theoretical insights into gathering information about organizational problems and opportunities. Prerequisite: T BUS 504.
View course details in MyPlan: T MKTG 560
T MKTG 580 International Marketing (4)
Examines the marketing strategies and tactics of companies that conduct international business. Explores how firms identify, research, and enter international markets, and the process used to develop global marketing strategies that are appropriate for those markets. Prerequisite: T BUS 504.
View course details in MyPlan: T MKTG 580
T EDUC 471 Diversity and Equity in Schools and Curriculum (5) DIV
Examines the instructional methods and multicultural understandings necessary to address the learning need of a diverse student population in a globalized society.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDUC 471
T EDUC 482 Foundations of Education: Policy, Ethics, and Philosophy (5)
Introduces contemporary issues in schools and their historical genesis starting with the successes and challenges in classrooms, schools, and communities today, tracing their roots back in time. Provides an overview for those considering becoming teachers or wishing to become more informed citizens.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDUC 482
T EDUC 483 Health Education and Child Abuse (3)
Theoretical and practical foundations for designing and integrating health instruction into the K-8 curriculum using a holistic approach that involves mental, physical, and affective domains. Crucial background information about educators' responsibilities regarding detection and reporting of child abuse and neglect under Washington State law.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDUC 483
T EDUC 490 Service Learning Practicum in Education (5)
Introduces the profession of teaching through a service-learning approach. Examines school-related factors and best practices in teaching through 40 hours of directed observation in a K-12 setting, course reading, discussion, and presentations. Credit /no credit only. Credit/no-credit only.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDUC 490
T EDUC 495 Environmental Education (3)
Examines developments in environmental education from practical, curricular, and philosophical perspectives. Focuses on integrating environmental education with any K-12 science curriculum. Examines current programs and curricula and considers the role of formal education in generating environmental awareness and stewardship.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDUC 495
T EDUC 501 Foundations of Education: Policy, Ethics, and Philosophy (3)
Provides in-depth examination of current issues in public schools focusing on the life decisions of professional education practice in classrooms, schools, and communities. Describes K-12 schools governance at all levels, ethical decision making in the system, and philosophical issues including the purpose of schools in contemporary society.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDUC 501
T EDUC 502 Learning About Learning (3)
Explores behaviorist, cognitive, constructivist, and sociocultural theories of learning. Analyzes and critiques each theory as it applies to classroom teaching. Focuses on the psychological and socio-psychological contexts within which students conduct the educational process.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDUC 502
T EDUC 503 Educational Measurement (3)
Introduces elements of measurement essential to good teaching. Emphasizes critical thinking about assessment instruments, evaluation of assessment instruments, innovative curricula, and other instructional materials. Focuses on initial knowledge and skills in the evaluation of published research (e.g., qualitative, quantitative, action, program evaluation) that are more fully developed in T EDUC 504.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDUC 503
T EDUC 504 Understanding Educational Research (3)
Introduction to research in the behavioral and social sciences relevant to study of education. Emphasizes the evaluation of research literature and the applicability of research findings. Prerequisite: T EDUC 503.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDUC 504
T EDUC 507 Portfolio Development (1)
Prepares pre-service teachers in the development, structure, and purpose of a portfolio. Introduces the mission and values of the program and the alignment of program goals with state and national standards. Identifies elements of a portfolio. Examines critical reflection, application of evidence-based practice, and assessment of teaching methods.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDUC 507
T EDUC 510 Science Methods: K-8 (3)
Examines how students learn science and explores research-based models of science instruction and assessment. Students design, implement, and evaluate instructional strategies that facilitate students' learning of scientific process.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDUC 510
T EDUC 519 Linguistics for Teachers (2-3)
Prepares pre-service teachers to understand the structure of language, language acquisition, and language learning to inform and facilitate research-based instructional practices. Examines developmental models of language-acquisition and linguistic theories while focusing on language acquisition in respect to native and bilingual language speakers.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDUC 519
T EDUC 520 Multicultural Education (3)
Explores major theoretical, political, and pedagogical issues in multicultural education. Studies institutional and cultural discrimination such as race, ethnicity, class, sexuality, gender, disability, and language. Examines the relationship between schooling and the reproduction of stratification and discrimination, as well as examines curricular and pedagogical approaches to address these variables.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDUC 520
T EDUC 523 Culture of Secondary Schools (3)
Systematic, research-based analysis of current practices in secondary schools, with particular emphasis on the roles and contextual influences of students, staff, parents, and communities, and their influence on student achievement.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDUC 523
T EDUC 524 Secondary Students with Disabilities (3)
Covers the theoretical, conceptual, and empirical bases for pre-service secondary teachers to meet the needs of students with disabilities. Emphasizes the translation of research into practice.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDUC 524
T EDUC 526 Arts in The Schools (3)
Explores the domain of the arts, particularly music, drawing, painting, and three dimensional expressions such as pottery, sculpture and architecture, to find means of better integrating arts and arts instruction into the school curriculum.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDUC 526
T EDUC 527 Content Literacy (3)
Provides prospective general and special education teachers with evidence-based practices in the area of content literacy. Addresses the knowledge and skills required for comprehending informational text. Includes evidence-based procedures for evaluation and modifying curricular material, and teaches methods for evaluation student progress.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDUC 527
T EDUC 530 Curriculum Inquiry (3)
Examines reading, writing, and thinking as it occurs in various specific and integrated content areas of the school curriculum in grades K-12. Focuses on the ideas and strategies needed to enhance instructional effectiveness across the curriculum.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDUC 530
T EDUC 531 Curricular Uses of Children's and Young Adult Literature (3)
Examines the issues and strategies in using children's and young adult literature across the curriculum in K-12 classrooms. Analyzes the variety of trade books currently available. Discusses the theory and techniques for creating a literature-based program.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDUC 531
T EDUC 533 Classroom Management in Secondary Schools (3)
Explores research-based strategies that enable pre-service secondary teachers to establish effective management systems and promote academic success for all students. Emphasizes strategies for creating a positive school environment, including preventing and responding to problem behavior, and improving student motivation for learning.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDUC 533
T EDUC 534 Process Writing Across The Curriculum (3)
Examines research and theories on writing development in school children, examine the relationships among reading, writing and content knowledge acquisition, and experiment with writing methods for classroom teachers.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDUC 534
T EDUC 535 Literacy in Secondary Schools (3)
Provides research base for teaching language arts to diverse secondary students including English language learners and students with disabilities. Integrates writing with literature across content areas. Addresses evaluation and modification of curricular materials. Teaches methods of evaluating student progress.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDUC 535
T EDUC 537 Classroom Assessment: Content Area Assessment (3)
Examines the curricular standards and methods of inquiry in science, social studies, health, and arts. Emphasizes how to develop curriculum, instruction, and assessment alignment in classrooms.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDUC 537
T EDUC 539 Principles of Teaching in Secondary Schools (3)
Provides an orientation to curriculum, instruction, assessment, classroom environment, social, and other issues for adolescent and young adults in grades 5-12. Readings, activities, and assignments are designed to develop foundational knowledge in issues in secondary teaching and to develop teacher candidates' consciousness as a teacher.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDUC 539
T EDUC 540 Systems of Prevention and Strategic Supports Seminar (3)
Emphasizes the roles teachers play in the academic, social, emotional, and behavioral development of students. Focuses on best practices in sustainable, systems change through collaborative problem solving. Includes critical components of multitier supports and proactive data-based decision making.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDUC 540
T EDUC 541 Reading Methods and Interventions (3)
Utilizes theory, research, and validated methods for designing literacy instruction. Focuses on effective teaching for beginning and struggling readers. Includes instructional design, assessment, and monitoring progress with additional attention to reading in special education contexts. Offered: jointly with T EDSP 541.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDUC 541
T EDUC 542 Structuring The Classroom For Success (3)
For teachers of at-risk/mainstreamed students. Focuses on how a well-managed classroom and school environment supports students' personal growth and promotes academic success. Examines alternative delivery systems and strategies for meeting individual needs. Offered: jointly with T EDSP 542.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDUC 542
T EDUC 543 Math Methods and Interventions (3)
Utilizes theory, research, and validated methods for designing effective mathematics instruction for academic interventions and support for students struggling in mathematics. Includes instructional design, assessment, and monitoring progress with additional attention to math learning in special education contexts. Offered: jointly with T EDSP 543.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDUC 543
T EDUC 548 Classroom Management (3)
Examines research-based strategies that enable pre-service teachers to establish effective management systems and promote academic success for all students. Emphasizes strategies for creating a positive school environment, including preventing and responding to problem behavior, and improving student motivation for learning.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDUC 548
T EDUC 549 Teaching Students with Special Needs (3)
Covers the theoretical, conceptual, and empirical bases for pre-service teachers to meet the needs of a diverse student population including students with disabilities, and highly capable students. Emphasized the translation of research into practice.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDUC 549
T EDUC 554 Language Arts (3)
Provides an evidence base for teaching language arts to diverse K-8 students including English language learners and students with disabilities. Focuses on research based writing instruction. Includes instruction in listening and oral language. Addresses evaluation and modification of curricular materials and progress monitoring methods.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDUC 554
T EDUC 555 Literature and Content Reading (3)
Prepares prospective teachers to analyze and acquire research-based pedagogy in reading instruction and informational texts. Prospective teachers will develop instructional designs to implement research findings in K-8 classrooms.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDUC 555
T EDUC 556 Social and Emotional Learning (3) Feuerborn
Prepares teacher to meet the social and emotional needs of primary and secondary students. Provides in-depth exploration of theory and practice including evidence-based assessment and supports across the universal, targeted, and intensive levels of prevention. Geared toward teachers interested in working with students who lack critical skills necessary for resiliency. Offered: jointly with T EDSP 556; Sp.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDUC 556
T EDUC 560 Mathematics Methods I (3)
Provides the theoretical and empirical foundation for effective mathematics instruction. Includes issues in mathematics instruction, analysis and modification of instructional materials and the design of generalizable problem-solving strategies. Includes methods for monitoring student progress and adjusting instruction to meet individual student needs. Addresses instructional content in grades K-4.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDUC 560
T EDUC 561 Mathematics Methods II (3)
Provides the theoretical and empirical foundation for effective mathematics instruction. Includes mathematics instruction, analysis and modification of instructional materials and the design of generalizable problem-solving strategies. Includes methods for monitoring student progress and adjusting instruction to meet individual student needs. Addresses instructional content in grades 5-8. Prerequisite: T EDUC 560.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDUC 561
T EDUC 562 Social Studies Methods (3)
Prepares prospective teachers to teach civics, economics, geography, and history. In addition to this social studies content- as required by the State of Washington-the course prepares prospective teachers to teach the skills required for and promote dispositions that support full democratic citizenship.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDUC 562
T EDUC 563 Cultural and Linguistic Contexts for Instructing English Language Learners (2-3)
Examines research on the social contexts of learning and teaching English as a second language. Analyzes multidisciplinary studies on culture in applied linguistics, sociolinguistics, and language policy. Understands how educational environments impact second language learners' attitude and identities as well as teachers' instructional approaches.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDUC 563
T EDUC 564 Methods and Curricula in Literacy Instruction for English Language Learners (2-3)
Focuses on research finding related to oral language, literacy, and academic achievement for English language learners in the United States. Examines the theoretical underpinnings and research-based principles of various methods and curricula of second language teaching. Emphasizes effective curricula and instructional strategies.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDUC 564
T EDUC 565 Research and Methods in Mathematics and Science Instruction for English Language Learners (2-3)
Examines mathematics and science instruction for English learners by drawing upon theories and research finding in mathematics/science education, bilingual education, second language acquisition, and multicultural education. Examines, critiques, and develops effective instructional practices (e.g. curriculum, instruction, and assessment) that promote K-12 student advancement in mathematics and science.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDUC 565
T EDUC 569 Testing and Evaluation for English Language Learners (2-3)
Focuses on the research on language assessment. Examines the debates about the socially situated nature of language and the skill-based individualistic focus in current conceptualizations of language proficiency. Studies how to evaluate various aspects of language and academic performance of English learners in K-12 classrooms.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDUC 569
T EDUC 583 Induction Seminar II (3)
Focus on research supporting and reflection on the evaluation criteria for Washington State teachers. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: jointly with T EDSP 583; W.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDUC 583
T EDUC 584 Induction Seminar III (3)
Focuses on continued induction for beginning teachers including reviewing the research supporting and reflection on the evaluation criteria for Washington State teachers. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: jointly with T EDSP 584; Sp.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDUC 584
T EDUC 587 Field Experience I (1-12, max. 12)
Observation and participation practicum in assigned public school classrooms under University supervision. Includes seminars that provide guided inquiry into the nature and social context of teaching and learning, drawing heavily from observations and experiences in the site placements. Prerequisite: site placement.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDUC 587
T EDUC 588 Field Experience II (1-12, max. 12)
Practicum in public school classrooms under university supervision. Includes group instruction to demonstrate specific skills and understanding. Provides guided inquiry into the nature and social context of teaching and learning, drawn heavily from observations and experiences in the interns' site placements. Prerequisite: T EDUC 587.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDUC 588
T EDUC 589 Field Experience III (1-12, max. 12)
Full-time teaching practicum in assigned public school classrooms. Includes seminar that provides guided inquiry into the nature and social context of teaching and learning, drawn heavily from observations and experiences in the interns' site placements. Prerequisite: T EDUC 588.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDUC 589
T EDUC 590 Reflective Seminar: Essentials of Teaching Practice (1-3, max. 3)
Provides guided inquiry into the nature and social context of teaching and learning, as contrasted with the more pragmatic content of other components of the Teacher Certification Program.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDUC 590
T EDUC 591 Special Topics in Education (1-9, max. 9)
Offered: jointly with T EDSP 591.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDUC 591
T EDUC 592 Independent Study (1-9, max. 9)
Faculty-supervised independent study or readings in areas of education of special interest or need to the student. Topics vary. Prerequisite: permission of instructor and approved program of study or readings. Offered: jointly with T EDSP 592.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDUC 592
T EDUC 593 Practicum Seminar I (3)
Provides the background, knowledge, and opportunity to explore research-based practices with students in classrooms. Prerequisite: Completion of core and strand requirements or permission of instructor. Offered: jointly with T EDSP 593.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDUC 593
T EDUC 594 Practicum Seminar II (3)
Second of two practicum seminars designed to improve professional practice. Prerequisite: T EDUC 593 or permission of instructor.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDUC 594
T EDUC 599 Culminating Project (1-13, max. 13)
Final project designed in collaboration with faculty as an application of the program's theory and research. Prerequisite: T EDUC 501; T EDUC 502; and T EDUC 504
TEDADM 570 Curriculum and Instruction (4-)
Focuses on curriculum: knowledge and strategies for selecting new and/or implementing current district academic programs, and instruction: envisioning and enabling instructional and auxiliary programs for improvement of teaching and learning.
View course details in MyPlan: TEDADM 570
TEDADM 571 Introduction to Leadership (2-)
Begins the academic, exploratory, and experiential process of leadership in educational settings. Introduces students to the key components of leadership in academic settings and begins the process of cohort formation that establishes the learning environment for the program.
View course details in MyPlan: TEDADM 571
TEDADM 572 School Law for Educational Administrators (3-)
Explores federal and state law that principals and district administrators are responsible to know and administer, including special education.
View course details in MyPlan: TEDADM 572
TEDADM 573 Supervision of Instruction (3-)
Advances the knowledge of curriculum and instruction models into the domain of supervision of individuals and groups of staff in instruction. Assists staff in designing and implementing professional self-improvement goals.
View course details in MyPlan: TEDADM 573
TEDADM 574 Issues in Educational Leadership (3-)
Focuses on contemporary issues confronting school building or district educational leaders, such as educating increasing numbers of students who are at-risk, advancing social justice in the schools, ensuring safe and orderly school environments, crisis management, and conflict resolution.
View course details in MyPlan: TEDADM 574
TEDADM 575 Leadership in a Changing Society (3-)
Addresses the issue of how one in a position of educational leadership understands and copes with changes in cultures, and socio-political environments as they impact schools.
View course details in MyPlan: TEDADM 575
TEDADM 576 School-Wide Assessment (3-)
Surveys breadth of assessment issues in school administration, including the role of assessment in the reform movement and school-wide improvement initiatives, classroom-based assessment, the importance of accurate and timely data collection, interpretation and communication about assessment in the school community, and reducing achievement gaps in diverse populations.
View course details in MyPlan: TEDADM 576
TEDADM 577 School Finance and Educational Policy (3-)
Addresses issues of school finance from national, regional, and local perspectives. Deals with district and school budgeting, fund raising, levies, ASB and athletic funding issues, as well as legislative relations.
View course details in MyPlan: TEDADM 577
TEDADM 578 Group Leadership in Educational Administration (3-)
Focuses on the topics of group dynamics, group facilitation, meeting design, oral communications, and the art of persuasion. Topics include group leadership strategies and skills necessary to lead organizational change efforts, to effectively elicit and manage creativity and diversity, and to manage conflict.
View course details in MyPlan: TEDADM 578
TEDADM 579 Human Resources (4-)
Addresses critical role of management of human resources that is key to effective educational administration. Topics include hiring, mentorship, collective bargaining, strategic staff planning, communication patterns, justice issues, and evaluation of staff.
View course details in MyPlan: TEDADM 579
TEDADM 580 Reflective Seminar for Administrators ([1-3]-, max. 3)
All interns meet and reflect on field experience, providing insight and support for one another as well as referring to evidenced based best practices discovered through the literature. Credit/no-credit only.
View course details in MyPlan: TEDADM 580
TEDADM 581 Internship for Administrators ([2-4]-, max. 14)
Field-based practicum which focuses on the application of theoretical and research knowledge in instruction, management, and leadership.
View course details in MyPlan: TEDADM 581
T EDLD 570 Leadership and Change (5) Rea
Focuses on applying theories and associated research support of leadership behaviors. Examines effectiveness of leaders as change agents related to organization communication, motivation, and empowerment. Discusses strategies for establishing vision as wells as addressing ethical challenges. Offered: S.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDLD 570
T EDLD 571 Systems Leadership (5)
Focuses on ways educational leaders apply systems thinking to organizations, policy advocacy, and team building. Offered: A.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDLD 571
T EDLD 572 Diversity in Education (5)
Focuses on the effects of social, historical, and cultural factors on educational leadership and student achievement. Critically analyzes plans and practices to foster culturally-responsive organizations that ensure optimal learning outcomes for all students. Offered: W.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDLD 572
T EDLD 573 Instructional Leadership (5) C. KNAUS
Focuses on conceptual foundation for understanding current research and theoretical directions in learning, motivation, and instruction related to diverse educational settings. Evaluates leadership research, theory, and practice related to effective, high quality instruction. Offered: jointly with TEDNUR 573.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDLD 573
T EDLD 574 Evaluation in Educational Systems (3) Adamson
Emphasizes the role of evaluation for the purpose of improving programs, instruction, and student learning. Focuses on the establishment of ongoing evaluation for internal and external stakeholders. Offered: jointly with TEDNUR 574; W.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDLD 574
T EDLD 575 Human Resources in Educational Institutions (3)
Focuses on effective human resource operations that reflect the organization's core values. Analyzes human resource problems related to educational organizations. Topics include complex legal, procedural, and risk-management issues; collective bargaining; human motivation; implementation of rigorous systems for recruitment; hiring; and retention of staff at all levels and related strategic alignment.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDLD 575
T EDLD 576 Education Law and Governance (3)
Focuses on educational governance models and on laws and regulations that define these models. Examines persistent legal issues in education, including an analysis of how these issues are manifest in public policy debates.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDLD 576
T EDLD 577 Educational Finance and Economics (3) C. KNAUS
Focuses on current issues in public and private education finance, including costs, ability to support P-12 schools, various types of college structures, and financial implications of educational principles. Examines problems of federal, state, and local school support, including financing models, capital outlay, and comparisons between types of institutions.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDLD 577
T EDLD 581 Applied Educational Research I (3)
Overview of applied educational research and systematic inquiry, framing problems of practice, and the role of critique in analysis of theory, evidence, and ethics. Focuses on research in educational leadership, diversity, accountability, and instruction. Offered: S.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDLD 581
T EDLD 582 Applied Educational Research II (3)
Focuses on qualitative and quantitative approaches in applied research. Offered: A.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDLD 582
T EDLD 583 Applied Educational Research III (3)
Continues the focus on qualitative and quantitative methodologies and principles of analysis for applied educational research and scholarly inquiry employed by educational leaders in multiple settings.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDLD 583
T EDLD 584 Applied Educational Research IV (3)
Continues the focus on qualitative and quantitative methodologies and principles of analysis for applied educational research and scholarly inquiry employed by educational leaders in multiple settings.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDLD 584
T EDLD 585 Proposal Development (3) C. KNAUS
Continues the focus on qualitative and quantitative methodologies and principles of analysis for applied educational research and scholarly inquiry employed by educational leaders in multiple settings.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDLD 585
T EDLD 587 Challenges in Practice I: Curriculum (3) K. HAERLING, C. KNAUS
Focuses on current issues in curriculum leadership at the national, state, and local levels, targeting the need for coherent, articulated approaches to student learning at various academic levels and disciplines. Addresses challenges of curriculum, evaluation, and program implementation. Offered: jointly with TEDNUR 587.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDLD 587
T EDLD 588 Challenges in Practice II: Supervision and Evaluation (3)
Focuses on development of systems for supervision and evaluation of instruction that directly connects to learning. Examines established and emerging models of evidence-based best practice in faculty and staff supervision and evaluation for instructional improvement. Offered: jointly with TEDNUR 588.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDLD 588
T EDLD 589 Challenges in Practice III: Crisis Management in Systems (3)
Provides practical experiences where students analyze and apply knowledge related to crisis management systems essential to health and safety of employees and students. Offered: jointly with TEDNUR 589.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDLD 589
T EDLD 590 Student Development in Higher Education (3)
Focuses on contemporary leadership of student development efforts within various higher education institutional settings. Examines alignment of organizational structures, leadership strategies, and academics to improve comprehensive learning experiences for an array of diverse students.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDLD 590
T EDLD 591 Leading Professional Learning (3)
Focuses on the educational leader's role in fostering on-going professional learning for employees at all levels of the organization. Examines models for ongoing professional learning that are data-driven, research-based, collaborative, contextual, and focused on improvements in learning and practice.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDLD 591
T EDLD 593 Critical Elements in Literacy (3)
Focuses on critical research-based practices in Pre-K-12 literacy and identifies achievement-gap closing best practices for economically, culturally, linguistically diverse students, and all historically under-served students. Students apply knowledge of this research-base in order to lead the implementation of effective literacy programs at all levels.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDLD 593
T EDLD 594 Seminar in the School Superintendency (1-, max. 3)
Focuses on the specific role, leadership behaviors, and effective management practices of the public school superintendent. Supports students in analyzing and integrating experiences and learning acquired during T EDLD 602. Credit/no-credit only.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDLD 594
T EDLD 595 Issues and Best Practices for Special Programs (3)
Focuses on school district leader roles in establishing effective central management and the integration of special programs. Applies approaches to improve central district systems and student learning for traditionally underserved populations. Offered: AWSp.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDLD 595
T EDLD 600 Independent Study or Resarch (1-4, max. 4)
Faculty-supervised independent study or readings in areas of educational leadership of special interest or need to the student. Topics vary. Prerequisite: permission of instructor and approved program of study or readings. Offered: AWSpS.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDLD 600
T EDLD 602 Practicum (1-6, max. 18)
Focuses on educational leadership development dealing with actual problems of practice in the work environment, including problem analysis and solution generation. Includes competencies required by professional organizations for certification purposes. Offered: jointly with TEDNUR 602.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDLD 602
T EDLD 801 Practice Doctorate Project/Capstone (*-)
Focuses on the implementation of the EdD in Educational Leadership capstone project as a structured inquiry process investigating a critical problem of practice. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: jointly with TEDNUR 801; AWSpS.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDLD 801
T EDLD 802 Capstone Seminar (1-3, max. 3)
Under the guidance of the faculty, students meet in groups to share and discuss the challenges and progress towards capstone project completion, providing insight, accountability, peer feedback, and support for one another. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: jointly with TEDNUR 802; AWSp.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDLD 802
TEDNUR 573 Instructional Leadership (5) C. KNAUS
Focuses on conceptual foundation for understanding current research and theoretical directions in learning, motivation, and instruction related to diverse educational settings. Evaluates leadership research, theory, and practice related to effective, high quality instruction. Offered: jointly with T EDLD 573.
View course details in MyPlan: TEDNUR 573
TEDNUR 574 Evaluation in Educational Systems (3) Adamson
Emphasizes the role of evaluation for the purpose of improving programs, instruction, and student learning. Focuses on the establishment of ongoing evaluation for internal and external stakeholders. Offered: jointly with T EDLD 574; W.
View course details in MyPlan: TEDNUR 574
TEDNUR 587 Challenges in Practice I: Curriculum (3) K. HAERLING, C. KNAUS
Focuses on current issues in curriculum leadership at the national, state, and local levels, targeting the need for coherent, articulated approaches to student learning at various academic levels and disciplines. Addresses challenges of curriculum, evaluation, and program implementation. Offered: jointly with T EDLD 587.
View course details in MyPlan: TEDNUR 587
TEDNUR 588 Challenges in Practice II: Supervision and Evaluation (3)
Focuses on development of systems for supervision and evaluation of instruction that directly connects to learning. Examines established and emerging models of evidence-based best practice in faculty and staff supervision and evaluation for instructional improvement. Offered: jointly with T EDLD 588.
View course details in MyPlan: TEDNUR 588
TEDNUR 589 Challenges in Practice III: Crisis Management in Systems (3)
Provides practical experiences where students analyze and apply knowledge related to crisis management systems essential to health and safety of employees and students. Offered: jointly with T EDLD 589.
View course details in MyPlan: TEDNUR 589
TEDNUR 602 Practicum (1-6, max. 18)
Focuses on educational leadership development dealing with actual problems of practice in the work environment, including problem analysis and solution generation. Includes competencies required by professional organizations for certification purposes. Offered: jointly with T EDLD 602.
View course details in MyPlan: TEDNUR 602
TEDNUR 801 Practice Doctorate Project/Capstone (*-)
Focuses on the implementation of the EdD in Educational Leadership capstone project as a structured inquiry process investigating a critical problem of practice. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: jointly with T EDLD 801; AWSpS.
View course details in MyPlan: TEDNUR 801
TEDNUR 802 Capstone Seminar (1-3, max. 3)
Under the guidance of the faculty, students meet in groups to share and discuss the challenges and progress towards capstone project completion, providing insight, accountability, peer feedback, and support for one another. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: jointly with T EDLD 802; AWSp.
View course details in MyPlan: TEDNUR 802
T EDSM 505 Teaching and Learning Mathematics in the Middle Grades (3)
Examines methods for teaching mathematics in grades 5-8. Emphasizes pedagogy, curriculum, and assessment practices that promote equity and are aligned with state and national content and teaching standards. Meets the needs of pre-service teacher candidates and in-service teachers seeking knowledge in middle level mathematics.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDSM 505
T EDSM 517 Secondary Math Methods I (3)
Examines research on mathematical learning and achievement of middle school and high school youth. Covers psychological, institutional, community, and political factors that support and challenge mathematical learning. Covers content strands aligning to state and national standards including rational number, proportional reasoning, and algebra/function.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDSM 517
T EDSM 519 Secondary Math Methods II (3)
Examines research-based methods for teaching mathematics at the secondary level. Emphasizes pedagogy, curriculum, and assessment practices that promote equity and support active mathematics learning and advancement for diverse students.
T EDSS 511 Secondary Science Methods I (3)
Builds on students' content knowledge in the sciences and helps them use well researched approaches to teach that content to secondary students. Examines scientific literacy, inquiry as a pedagogical practice, and general best practices with respect to laboratory safety.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDSS 511
T EDSS 512 Secondary Science Methods II (3)
Uses researched approaches to build on pedagogical content knowledge in the sciences and education to develop grade 5-12 curriculum and teaching skills. Uses the National Science Education Standards to explore scientific literacy, technology, science and society, reading and writing in science education, and equity and inclusion in science education. Prerequisite: T EDSS 511.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDSS 512
T EDSP 513 Issues in Autism for Educators (3)
Prepares general and special education teachers to sere children who are diagnosed with Autistic Spectrum Disorder (ASD) in a variety of settings with a specific focus on inclusion and positive behavior supports. Offers specific and evidence-based information relevant to assessing, planning, and implementing interventions for children with ASD.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDSP 513
T EDSP 520 Multicultural Issues in Special Education (3)
Provides an analysis of multicultural and bilingual perspectives in education with an emphasis on issues relevant to special education. Addresses issues and trends affecting the education of diverse students in special education. Emphasizes research based practices for serving culturally and linguistically diverse students.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDSP 520
T EDSP 539 Introduction to Exceptionalities (3)
Provides an overview of all disabling conditions including low and high incidence disabilities. Examines the nature of various disabilities, program implications, and the continuum of delivery options available to special education students.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDSP 539
T EDSP 541 Reading Methods and Interventions (3)
Utilizes theory, research, and validated methods for designing literacy instruction. Focuses on effective teaching for beginning and struggling readers. Includes instructional design, assessment, and monitoring progress with additional attention to reading in special education contexts. Offered: jointly with T EDUC 541.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDSP 541
T EDSP 542 Structuring The Classroom For Success (3)
For teachers of at-risk/mainstreamed students. Focuses on how a well-managed classroom and school environment supports students' personal growth and promotes academic success. Examines alternative delivery systems and strategies for meeting individual needs. Offered: jointly with T EDUC 542.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDSP 542
T EDSP 543 Math Methods and Interventions (3)
Utilizes theory, research, and validated methods for designing effective mathematics instruction for academic interventions and support for students struggling in mathematics. Includes instructional design, assessment, and monitoring progress with additional attention to math learning in special education contexts. Offered: jointly with T EDUC 543.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDSP 543
T EDSP 544 Special Education Assessment and Evaluation (3)
Explores the main purposes for educational assessment of students with disabilities including the social, legal, and ethical considerations involved in educational assessments. Addresses the roles and responsibilities of each member of the assessment team. Discusses various measurements including standardized tests, norm, criterion referenced, and curriculum-based assessment.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDSP 544
T EDSP 545 Introduction to Emotional Behavioral Disabilities (3)
Examines the theories relative to teaching children and youth with emotional behavioral disorders. Discusses factors such as family, biological, school, and other environmental influences. Addresses specific classroom strategies based on student assessment and evaluation, including functional behavior assessment and positive behavior intervention plans.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDSP 545
T EDSP 546 Collaborative Consultation (3)
Focuses on the need for collaboration between general and special educators brought on by current changes in both instructional delivery systems for students with disabilities, and in the law. Overview of the knowledge and skills necessary to become a full participant in school-based collaboration model.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDSP 546
T EDSP 547 Special Education And The Law (3)
Examines the complex set of laws, regulations, and court cases have built up in recent years that govern the education of students with disabilities. Comprehensive introduction to the legal issues in special education, approached through the larger context of education law.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDSP 547
T EDSP 548 Special Education Classroom Management (3)
Prepares special education teachers with skills in research-based problem prevention and problem-solving strategies that enable them to promote academic success for students with special needs. Addresses theoretical implications and applications of evidence-based behavior management strategies.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDSP 548
T EDSP 550 Special Education Principles and Practices I (3)
Provides in-depth exploration of disabling conditions with emphasis on the etiology of high incidence disabilities. Covers theoretical, conceptual and empirical bases to meet the needs of diverse students. Addresses legislation including the IDEiA, Section 504 of the Vocational Rehabilitation Act, and the Washington Administrative Code: Special Education Rules and Regulations.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDSP 550
T EDSP 551 Special Education Principles and Practices II (3)
Provides the knowledge and skills to design research-based program options for students with disabilities and to evaluate the efficacy of a continuum of service delivery options. Includes issues unique to special educators such as development and implementation of individual education and transition plans, scheduling, and working with paraprofessionals.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDSP 551
T EDSP 556 Social and Emotional Learning (3) Feuerborn
Prepares teacher to meet the social and emotional needs of primary and secondary students. Provides in-depth exploration of theory and practice including evidence-based assessment and supports across the universal, targeted, and intensive levels of prevention. Geared toward teachers interested in working with students who lack critical skills necessary for resiliency. Offered: jointly with T EDUC 556; Sp.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDSP 556
T EDSP 583 Induction Seminar II (3)
Focus on research supporting and reflection on the evaluation criteria for Washington State teachers. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: jointly with T EDUC 583; W.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDSP 583
T EDSP 584 Induction Seminar III (3)
Focuses on continued induction for beginning teachers including reviewing the research supporting and reflection on the evaluation criteria for Washington State teachers. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: jointly with T EDUC 584; Sp.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDSP 584
T EDSP 587 Special Education Field Experience and Reflective Seminar I (1-5, max. 5)
Observation and evaluation of research-based practices in assigned public school classrooms under University supervision with accompanying guided inquiry into the nature and social context of teaching and learning. Reflective seminar component draws heavily upon observations and experiences from interns' site placements.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDSP 587
T EDSP 588 Special Education Field Experience and Reflective Seminar II (1-5, max. 5)
Observation and participation practicum in assigned public school classrooms under University supervision with accompanying guided inquiry into the nature and social context of teaching and learning. Reflective seminar integrates evidence-based practices with experiences from interns' site placements. Prerequisite: T EDSP 587.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDSP 588
T EDSP 589 Special Education Field Experience and Reflective Seminar III (1-12, max. 12)
Culminating classroom internship in assigned public school classrooms under University supervision with accompanying guided inquiry into the nature and social context of teaching and learning. Experiences in the site placements focus on synthesis of planning, management, teaching and assessment of the learning environment. Prerequisite: T EDSP 588 or permission of instructor. Credit/no-credit only.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDSP 589
T EDSP 590 Special Education Reflective Seminar (1-3, max. 3)
Provides guided inquiry into the nature and social context of teaching and learning in the special education classroom, as contrasted with the more pragmatic content of other components of the Teacher Certification Program.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDSP 590
T EDSP 591 Special Topics in Education (1-9, max. 9)
Offered: jointly with T EDUC 591.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDSP 591
T EDSP 592 Independent Study (1-9, max. 9)
Faculty-supervised independent study or readings in areas of education of special interest or need to the student. Topics vary. Prerequisite: permission of instructor and approved program of study or readings. Offered: jointly with T EDUC 592.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDSP 592
T EDSP 593 Practicum Seminar I (3)
Provides the background, knowledge, and opportunity to explore research-based practices with students in classrooms. Prerequisite: Completion of core and strand requirements or permission of instructor. Offered: jointly with T EDUC 593.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDSP 593
T EDSP 594 Special Education Seminar II: Collaboration In The Education Community (3)
Explores several avenues to successful collaborative problem-solving approaches to meeting the needs of students with disabilities who are receiving their instruction in the general-education classroom.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDSP 594
T EDSP 595 Induction Seminar For Special Educators (3)
Analyzes retention issues affecting beginning special education teachers. Synthesizes research-based skills and knowledge. Evaluates procedures for finding a mentor and best practices for long-term success. Examines support systems for special educators with regard to expectations of schools, legal expectations, and the needs of students in today's K-8 schools.
View course details in MyPlan: T EDSP 595
T CORE 100 Introduction to Interdisciplinary Study (2)
Introduction to interdisciplinarity and to academic problem-solving. Focuses on critical inquiry, collaborative study, peer review, and active learning. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSp.
View course details in MyPlan: T CORE 100
T CORE 101 Introduction to Academic Writing (5) C
Introduces principles of argument, critical thinking, and analytical readings, and writing and research skill needed for academic writing. Covers skills for managing the writing process and how to transfer learning to other disciplinary contexts for writing. Linked to another core curriculum course in the humanities, social sciences, or natural sciences. Offered: AWSp.
View course details in MyPlan: T CORE 101
T CORE 102 Introduction to Science (5) NW
Introduces students to university work by focusing on a core curriculum theme from multiple and interdisciplinary perspectives. Emphasizes learning in environmental science, including geology, chemistry, biology, oceanography, and ecology. Offered: A.
View course details in MyPlan: T CORE 102
T CORE 103 Introduction to Social Science (5) I&S
Introduces students to university work by focusing on a core curriculum theme from multiple and interdisciplinary perspectives. Emphasizes learning in the social sciences, including sociology, anthropology, psychology, politics, and global studies. Offered: A.
View course details in MyPlan: T CORE 103
T CORE 104 Introduction to Humanities (5) VLPA
Introduces students to university work by focusing on a core curriculum theme from multiple and interdisciplinary perspectives. Emphasizes learning in the humanities (art, history, literature, philosophy). Includes readings, films, performances, and exhibits. Offered: A.
View course details in MyPlan: T CORE 104
T CORE 110 Introduction to Educational Equity and College Access (2)
Focuses on issues of educational inequity and college access. Prepares students to work with youth by critically examining the educational and psychological literature on first-generation college students. Offered: jointly with T UNIV 110; AWSp.
View course details in MyPlan: T CORE 110
T CORE 112 Introduction to Science (5) NW
Introduces students to university work by focusing on a core curriculum from multiple and interdisciplinary perspectives. Emphasizes learning in the sciences, including computer science, geology, physics, biology, chemistry, and ecology.
View course details in MyPlan: T CORE 112
T CORE 113 Introduction to Social Science (5) I&S
Introduces students to university work by focusing on a core curriculum from multiple and interdisciplinary perspectives. Emphasizes learning in the social sciences, including political science, economics, social work, business, sociology, geography, and psychology.
View course details in MyPlan: T CORE 113
T CORE 114 Introduction to Humanities (5) VLPA
Introduces students to university work by focusing on a core curriculum theme from multiple and interdisciplinary perspectives. Emphasizes learning in the humanities, including literature, philosophy, film, theatre, music, and art.
View course details in MyPlan: T CORE 114
T CORE 122 Introduction to Science (5) NW
Introduces students to university work by focusing on a core curriculum from multiple and interdisciplinary perspectives. Emphasizes learning in the sciences, including biology, health, computer science, geology, physics, chemistry, and ecology. Offered: Sp.
View course details in MyPlan: T CORE 122
T CORE 123 Introduction to Social Science (5) I&S
Introduces students to university work by focusing on a core curriculum theme from multiple and interdisciplinary perspectives. Emphasizes learning in the social sciences, including psychology, urban studies, geography, sociology, social welfare, and political science. Offered: Sp.
View course details in MyPlan: T CORE 123
T CORE 124 Introduction to Humanities (5) VLPA
Introduces students to university work by focusing on a core curriculum from multiple and interdisciplinary perspectives. Emphasizes learning in the humanities, including literature, music, art, philosophy, and history. Offered: Sp.
View course details in MyPlan: T CORE 124
T CORE 133 Many Ways of Knowing: Introduction to Research (5) I&S
Examines how new knowledge is produced and assessed. Investigates how we know if something is true or accurate. Explores the different pathways of the process of discovery. Teaches students to learn about and try out different ways of creating new knowledge, as well as learn to evaluate existing knowledge.
View course details in MyPlan: T CORE 133
T UNIV 101 Introduction to Interdisciplinary Study (2)
Credit/no-credit only.
View course details in MyPlan: T UNIV 101
T UNIV 110 Introduction to Educational Equity and College Access (2)
Focuses on issues of educational inequity and college access. Prepares students to work with youth by critically examining the educational and psychological literature on first-generation college students. Offered: jointly with T CORE 110; AWSp.
View course details in MyPlan: T UNIV 110
T UNIV 200 The Social-Digital: Tools and Activism for the 21st Century (2) C. CARMEAN
This course explores technologies of political and social change. The course examines crowd-sourced actions of micro-lending and internet petitions, as well as collectives that operate via the dark web. The student will learn to create online identities as well as articulate the power of social tools for professional good. Offered: AWSp.
View course details in MyPlan: T UNIV 200
T UNIV 250 Husky Success Quest (2)
Students discover their talents, define their own unique paths, and learn how to develop and apply their strengths for academic, personal, and professional success. Engages in an exploration of purpose and perspective through the Roadtrip Nation Experience and the StrengthsQuest assessment.
View course details in MyPlan: T UNIV 250
TCSS 101 Computer Science Principles (5) NW, QSR
Introduces fundamental concepts of computer science and computational thinking. Includes logical reasoning; problem solving; operation of computers and networks; effective searching; and ethical, legal, and social aspects of information technology.
View course details in MyPlan: TCSS 101
TCSS 142 Introduction to Programming (5) NW, QSR
Introduces the design and implementation of computer programs. Includes an introduction to program structure, data types, and object-oriented design. Prerequisite: a minimum grade of 2.0 in either TMATH 116, TMATH 120, TMATH 121, or MATH 120, a score of 154-163 on MPT-AS test, or a score of 2 on AP exam.
View course details in MyPlan: TCSS 142
TCSS 143 Fundamentals of Object-Oriented Programming Theory and Application (5) NW, QSR
Develops fundamental concepts and techniques for analysis, design, and implementation of computer programs using an object-oriented language. Includes recursive techniques and simple data structures. Prerequisite: a minimum grade of 2.0 in either TCSS 142 or CSE 142.
View course details in MyPlan: TCSS 143
TCSS 305 Programming Practicum (5) NW, QSR
Provides a practicum in program design and development. Programming practice on a medium-scale, object-oriented application, consolidating prior programming principles and expanding knowledge of application design.
View course details in MyPlan: TCSS 305
TCSS 321 Discrete Structures I (5) NW, QSR
Introduces definitions and tools for reasoning about discrete mathematical objects useful for computer professionals, including set theory, propositions and predicates, Boolean algebra, sequences, enumeration, algorithms, methods of proof, and relations.
View course details in MyPlan: TCSS 321
TCSS 322 Discrete Structures II (5)
Covers advanced topics in discrete mathematics useful for computing professionals, including basic counting techniques, discrete probability, recurrence relations, graphs, trees, and models of computation such as finite state machines and Turing machines. Prerequisite: a minimum grade of 2.0 in TCSS 321 and either TMATH 110 or TMATH 390.
View course details in MyPlan: TCSS 322
TCSS 325 Computers, Ethics, and Society (5) VLPA/I&S
Analyzes social, political, and ethical implications of computer and information technologies. Covers Western ethical theories, professional ethics, and diverse topics in computer ethics. Emphasizes writing and the construction of ethical arguments.
View course details in MyPlan: TCSS 325
TCSS 333 C for System Programming (5)
Introduces C as a language for exploring low-level machine characteristics and interacting with operating system services. Includes bit models for numeric data, pointers, arrays and structures, memory allocation, development of multiple file programs, libraries, system calls, and tools for compiling and linking.
View course details in MyPlan: TCSS 333
TCSS 342 Data Structures (5) QSR
Covers abstract data types, design and complexity analysis of data, and usage of generic data structure libraries in high-level programming languages. Includes sequential and linked lists, binary trees and balanced binary trees, B-trees, hash tables, and heaps. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in either TCES 203 or both TCSS 305 and TCSS 321.
View course details in MyPlan: TCSS 342
TCSS 343 Design and Analysis of Algorithms (5) NW
Develops competencies associated with problem-solving, algorithms, and computational models. Explores algorithms analysis and design, and computational complexity. Includes efficient algorithms, models of computation, correctness, time and space complexity, NP-complete problems, and undecidable problems. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in TCSS 342; minimum grade of 2.0 in either TMATH 124 or MATH 124.
View course details in MyPlan: TCSS 343
TCSS 360 Software Development and Quality Assurance Techniques (5) NW
Covers how to build quality software using standard development practices and representations. Includes writing and using requirements, designing and representing computational units, rigorous program testing, reviews and inspections, and working effectively in teams. Prerequisite: a minimum grade of 2.0 in TCSS 342; 10 credits of writing coursework.
View course details in MyPlan: TCSS 360
TCSS 371 Machine Organization (5)
Develops the hardware basis for computing systems, and the relationship between hardware and software. Covers number representations, digital logic, machine organization, instruction set architecture and assembly language. Includes an introduction to C programming language and its translation into machine instructions. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in TCSS 333.
View course details in MyPlan: TCSS 371
TCSS 372 Computer Architecture (5)
Covers the micro architecture level of machine design and advanced architecture features for performance enhancement. Subjects include bus; memory and CPU design; hardware support for operating systems; CISC/RISC architectures; and parallelism. Prerequisite: a minimum grade of 2.0 in TCSS 371.
View course details in MyPlan: TCSS 372
TCSS 390 Undergraduate Seminar in CSS (2, max. 12)
Enhances problem-solving skills. Topics and approaches vary. Includes lectures and problem sessions in mathematics, programming, problem solving, and CSS applications. Does not carry credit toward the CSS degree Credit/no-credit only.
View course details in MyPlan: TCSS 390
TCSS 421 Compiler Construction (5)
Develops student understanding of how compliers translate high level programming languages into assembly language. Includes specifying programming language syntax, building data structures, generating assembly code, and implementing a complier for a small high-level language. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in both TCSS 342 and TCSS 371.
View course details in MyPlan: TCSS 421
TCSS 422 Computer Operating Systems (5) QSR
Examines the fundamental concepts of operating systems and how they function. Includes process management, file systems, concurrency, inter-process communication, graphical interfaces, and security. Prerequisite: a minimum grade of 2.0 in TCSS 342; a minimum grade of 2.0 in TCSS 371.
View course details in MyPlan: TCSS 422
TCSS 430 Networking and Distributed Systems (5)
Computer network architectures and protocol layers, including LANs, MANs, and WANs; OSI protocol TCP/IP, routing, congestion, and flow control; data compression; interface between the network and the program (e.g., sockets, ports, mailboxes), security issues (including authentication and authorization, encryption), distributed file systems, and remote procedure calls. Prerequisite: a minimum grade of 2.0 in TCSS 360; a minimum grade of 2.0 in TCSS 422.
View course details in MyPlan: TCSS 430
TCSS 431 Network Security (5)
Covers cryptographic methods including public and private key algorithms. Examines protocols that utilize such methods, such as secure email, digital signatures, authorization, e-voting, and electronic cash. Includes lab component for demonstration of security techniques such as firewalls, intrusion detection systems, and virtual private networks. Prerequisite: a minimum grade of 2.0 in TCSS 321 and TCSS 325
View course details in MyPlan: TCSS 431
TCSS 435 Artificial Intelligence and Knowledge Acquisition (5)
Introduction to the uses of intelligence theories, techniques, and tools. Foundational material includes search, knowledge representation, machine learning, and planning. Artificial intelligence techniques applied to practical problems in areas such as control systems, optimization, scheduling, and classification. Prerequisite: a minimum grade of 2.0 in TCSS 342.
View course details in MyPlan: TCSS 435
TCSS 437 Mobile Robotics (5)
Explores algorithmic design options for motion control, navigation, and obstacle avoidance in mobile autonomous robots. Introduces pertinent principles from artificial intelligence and embedded real-time systems. Students construct robots from kits and program them to demonstrate sophisticated behaviors. Prerequisite: a minimum grade of 2.0 in TCSS 360; a minimum grade of 2.0 in TCSS 422.
View course details in MyPlan: TCSS 437
TCSS 440 Formal Models in Computer Science (5)
Covers languages, finite automata, regular expressions, context-free grammars, and other automata such as pushdown store machines and Turing machines. Includes models of computation, computable and non-computable functions, non-determinism, space and time complexity, tractable and intractable functions, non-determinism, space and time. Prerequisite: a minimum grade of 2.0 in TCSS 342.
View course details in MyPlan: TCSS 440
TCSS 445 Database Systems Design (5) QSR
Fundamental concepts, system organization, and implementation of database systems. Methods for obtaining requirements and designing database systems; differences between hierarchical, relational, and network database designs; file organizations and data structures; structured query language (SQL); query optimization; database design; concurrency control; security; issues involving distributed database systems. Prerequisite: a minimum grade of 2.0 in TCSS 342.
View course details in MyPlan: TCSS 445
TCSS 450 Mobile Application Programming (5)
Covers mobile programming principles. Explores application life cycle, user interfaces, data management, graphics libraries, memory management, localization, and web services. Prerequisite: TCSS 360.
View course details in MyPlan: TCSS 450
TCSS 452 Human-Computer Interaction (5)
Examines human-centered design of interactive systems. Focuses on understanding user needs, brainstorming, sketching, choosing from among design alternatives, prototyping, usability testing, representing, communicating, and critiquing designs. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in either TCSS 143 or T INST 312.
View course details in MyPlan: TCSS 452
TCSS 458 Computer Graphics (5) NW
Introduction to the main concepts in image synthesis, modeling, and animation. Topics include displays, drawing and rendering algorithms, geometric transformations, 2- and 3D viewing, objects representation, and computer animation. Prerequisite: a minimum grade of 2.0 in TCSS 342.
View course details in MyPlan: TCSS 458
TCSS 460 Client/Server Programming for Internet Applications (5)
Examines the languages and techniques for internet client/server application programming. Includes languages like CGI, Perl, XML, JavaScript, and DHTML, and topics like scripts, queries, forms, data access, redirection, firewalls, proxies, hypermedia, cookies, and gateways. Prerequisite: a minimum grade of 2.0 in TCSS 360.
View course details in MyPlan: TCSS 460
TCSS 461 Advanced Software Engineering (5)
Analyzes system re-engineering, domain-specific languages, generative development, system design and service-oriented architecture. Also covers how to handle legacy systems, utilize model driven software development to automate code generation and understand low to high level architectures, by using software engineering methodologies, refactoring, UML, and the Eclipse framework. Prerequisite: TCSS 360.
View course details in MyPlan: TCSS 461
TCSS 465 Embedded Real-Time System Programming (5)
An examination of particular theory and practice in designing software embedded in electronic devices and controllers. Includes clocks, threads, multitasking, critical sections, monitors, scheduling, on chip and external device interfacing, communications, and fault tolerance. Prerequisite: a minimum grade of 2.0 in TCSS 422.
View course details in MyPlan: TCSS 465
TCSS 480 Comparative Programming Languages (5)
Study and comparison of several programming languages in regards to data structures, operations, notation, and control. Examines programming paradigms, implementation strategies, programming environments, and programming style. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in both TCSS 342 and TCSS 333.
View course details in MyPlan: TCSS 480
TCSS 481 Computer Security (5)
Discusses the theoretical and practical issues surrounding computer security and data protection. Explores formal models of encryption and authentication; operating system and network security; programming and vulnerabilities analysis. Prerequisite: either T INST 312, which may be taken concurrently, or a minimum grade of 2.0 in both TCSS 342 and TCSS 325.
View course details in MyPlan: TCSS 481
TCSS 487 Cryptography (5)
Covers basic concepts of cryptography, including authentication, public key cryptography, and digital signatures. Additionally, it covers modern definitions of security, implementation aspects of cryptographic schemes and their use in computer networks and the internet. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in TCSS 321 or TMATH 125 or TMATH 402.
View course details in MyPlan: TCSS 487
TCSS 488 Coding Theory (5)
Covers electronic communication over noisy channels, and digital storage on various types of media. Describes constructions of modern error-correction codes, including Reed Solomon, Golay, and BCH codes. Also covers computational aspects, complexity of encoding/decoding algorithms, their implementations and their uses in modern communication systems. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in TMATH 308 or TCSS 321.
View course details in MyPlan: TCSS 488
TCSS 490 Special Topics in Computing and Software Systems (5, max. 10) QSR
Examines current topics and issues associated with computing and software systems.
View course details in MyPlan: TCSS 490
TCSS 491 Computational Worlds (5)
Development of large-scale software project in advanced imaging involving computational intelligence and artificial life applied to such fields as game development or virtual reality. Students work in interdisciplinary teams that integrate several computer science areas. Advanced topics: game programming, artificial life, virtual humans, and computer animation. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in TCSS 360.
View course details in MyPlan: TCSS 491
TCSS 497 Internship in Computing and Software Systems (1-10, max. 10)
Project as delineated in a contract between student, faculty advisor, and community sponsor. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in TCSS 342.
View course details in MyPlan: TCSS 497
TCSS 498 Directed Readings in Computing and Software Systems (1-5, max. 10)
Readings as specified in agreement with faculty. Prerequisite: TCSS 360.
View course details in MyPlan: TCSS 498
TCSS 499 Undergraduate Research in Computing and Software Systems (1-10, max. 10)
Design and implementation of a research study as specified in a contract with faculty. Prerequisite: TCSS 360.
View course details in MyPlan: TCSS 499
TCSS 510 Enterprise Architecture Foundations (5)
Examines foundational aspects of both enterprise and architectural thinking, including the application software to technology to solution architecture continuum, the role of EA in business and IT alignment, architectural styles and techniques for capturing and documenting architectures. Practices techniques for analyzing and reasoning about architectures.
View course details in MyPlan: TCSS 510
TCSS 511 Advanced Enterprise Architecture (5)
Examines advanced aspects of enterprise architecture practices and its application to guide and support business strategy. An EA maturity framework and governance practices are developed through a case study on applying evolving technologies - cloud, mobile, social media, big data in the EA context to solve business problems. Prerequisite: TCSS 510.
View course details in MyPlan: TCSS 511
TCSS 523 Data Compression (5)
Covers a broad range of compression techniques, as well as their implementations in today's compression standards. Techniques include block-based codes, dictionary coding, predictive coding, vector quantization, and transform coding, including wavelets. Covers selected standards for text, image, video and audio compression.
View course details in MyPlan: TCSS 523
TCSS 531 Cloud and Virtualization Systems Engineering (5)
Provides an introduction to cloud computing and virtualization - enabling multiple instances of operating systems to be run on a single physical system. Concepts include hypervisors, virtual machines, paravirtualization and virtual appliances for design of cloud computing platforms; server and desktop virtualization; storage, network, and application virtualization.
View course details in MyPlan: TCSS 531
TCSS 540 Theory of Computing (5)
Covers computational models including finite automata, regular expressions, context-free grammars, pushdown automata, Turing machines, and techniques for analyzing them. Basic computability theory and undecidability, computational complexity theory, and NP-completeness.
View course details in MyPlan: TCSS 540
TCSS 541 Concurrency in Computation (5)
Covers the design and verification of concurrent algorithms, both for processes using shared variables and synchronization primitive and for processes using message exchange. Includes axiomatic semantics for and correctness proofs of sequential and concurrent programs, and concepts of synchronization, indivisible actions, safety, progress, and fairness.
View course details in MyPlan: TCSS 541
TCSS 543 Advanced Algorithms (5)
Prepares students for analysis and use of advanced algorithms. Covers advanced graph, number theoretical (with applications to cryptography), one-line, approximation (with performance guarantees), and probabilistic algorithms. Covers turing machines and NP-completeness. Not available for elective credit.
View course details in MyPlan: TCSS 543
TCSS 544 Applied Linear Algebra (5)
Examines math concepts on linear algebra and linear transformation, and subjects on singular value decomposition, Fourier transforms, Wavelet transforms, and other topics. Students apply these math concepts and implement numerical solutions to problems in areas including pattern recognition, information retrieval, web search, image processing, cryptography, and machine learning.
View course details in MyPlan: TCSS 544
TCSS 545 Database Systems Design (5)
Covers fundamental database concepts; relational databases; conceptual data modeling; entity relational diagrams and UML; logical and physical design; SQL commands and queries; query optimization; Web database applications development; transaction management; distributed and object-oriented databases; data warehousing and data mining; XML query language; image and text retrieval; data storage; and indexing.
View course details in MyPlan: TCSS 545
TCSS 551 Big Data Analytics (5)
Examines a variety of techniques to perform data analytics and their extensions to big data infrastructure. Students will be able to identify mathematical foundations of data analytics, data analyses algorithms and tools. Introduces big data infrastructure, distributed computational paradigm, and distributed data analytics algorithms. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 3.0 in TCSS 343 and TCSS 445 or equivalent.
View course details in MyPlan: TCSS 551
TCSS 552 Interaction Design (5)
Examines the design of interactive products and services supporting human activity in a variety of settings. Focuses on user inquiry, sketching, prototyping, brainstorming, and usability testing. Cultivates reflective practice within a human-centered design paradigm.
View course details in MyPlan: TCSS 552
TCSS 554 Information Retrieval and Web Search (5)
Examines the basic principles and techniques used in information retrieval (IR) and web search, including keyword based search, content analysis (vector space model, probabilistic language models), link analysis (PageRank), indexing, text classification, document clustering, aggregated search, user-system interaction in IR, and evaluation of IR systems.
View course details in MyPlan: TCSS 554
TCSS 555 Machine Learning (5)
Explores learning and predictive modeling methods for data analysis, such as decision trees, instance based earning, Baysian learning, neural networks, ensemble methods, and support vector machines. Surveys fundamental concepts of learning theory.
View course details in MyPlan: TCSS 555
TCSS 558 Applied Distributed Computing (5)
Covers techniques and concepts associated with constructing software that is distributed, reliable, efficient, and extensible; programming multi-threaded applications, communication among objects on different computers, creating a server accessed by multiple clients, using common object design patterns, locating and tailoring components. Not available for elective credit.
View course details in MyPlan: TCSS 558
TCSS 559 Web Services (5)
Investigates a service-oriented computing paradigm for use with the Internet, web services. Includes comparisons of distributed computing paradigms, enterprise application integration, service oriented architecture, web services concepts, web services technologies, service coordination protocols, service compositions, and service applications. Prerequisite: TCSS 558.
View course details in MyPlan: TCSS 559
TCSS 564 Database Systems Internals (5)
Analyzes the internals of a database system and the principles of building a database engine, including buffer management, query execution and optimization, and transaction management. Provides hands-on experience on the internals of one of the commercial database management systems as a case study. Prerequisite: TCSS 343; TCSS 445.
View course details in MyPlan: TCSS 564
TCSS 565 Spatial Databases with Applications in Geographic Information Systems (5)
Evaluates spatial databases, and focuses on their applications in Geographic Information Systems (GIS). Covers how to describe how to represent, store, index, and process spatial objects and focus on their application in the field of Geographic Information Systems (GIS). Prerequisite: minimum grade of 3.0 in TCS 343 or equivalent.
View course details in MyPlan: TCSS 565
TCSS 566 Computer-Mediated Communications (5)
Examines the uses of computer and communications technologies, including application implementations, for supporting human-to-human communications in both personal and social contexts. Includes topics from sociological and psychological aspects needed to design effective systems. Involves development of significant collaboration application and research paper.
View course details in MyPlan: TCSS 566
TCSS 570 Introduction to Parallel Computing (5)
Covers parallel architectures, interconnection networks and embeddings; fundamental communication operations; performance and scalability metrics; parallel programming paradigms, message-passing programming in MPI, and shared-address space programming in threads; parallel algorithms for sorting, searching, matrix problems, graph problems, and dynamic load balancing. Prerequisite: TCSS 543.
View course details in MyPlan: TCSS 570
TCSS 573 Internet of Things (5)
Examines physical design and logical design of Internet of Things, functional blocks and architecture, protocols and communication models, enabling technologies, application domains specific to Internet of Things, smart objects, development tools, system management, cloud services, security and data analytics. Prerequisite: TCSS 558, or permission from instructor.
View course details in MyPlan: TCSS 573
TCSS 574 Cyber Electromagnetics (5)
Covers fundamental of EM Theory. Electromagnetic compatibility and interference. Electromagnetic intrusion and jamming. Electromagnetic hardening. Electromagnetic spectrum management. Electromagnetic Pulses (EMP). Smart-Grid and SCADA Protection. TEMPEST. Recommended: PHYS 122 and PHYS 123 or Electromagnetics Basics.
View course details in MyPlan: TCSS 574
TCSS 575 Control of Cyber-physical Systems (5)
Introduces optimal control theories. Reviews the current state of network control efforts for CPS. Studies recent development of control algorithms for CPS. Focuses on approaches to deliver fully distributed control over wireless sensor networks from control theoretic perspective. Prerequisite: TCSS 569, or permission from the instructor.
View course details in MyPlan: TCSS 575
TCSS 580 Information Theory (5)
Examines entropy and other measures of information; data compression fundamentals and modern algorithms; reliable data transmission; and the channel capacity theorem for discrete memoryless and Gaussian channels. Applications to games of chance, perfect secrecy, and error correction are briefly covered. Prerequisite: TCSS 543.
View course details in MyPlan: TCSS 580
TCSS 581 Cryptology (5)
Covers simple ciphers, block and stream ciphers, attacks, public-key ciphers, electronic signature, cryptographic algorithms, and real-world examples. Prerequisite: TCSS 543.
View course details in MyPlan: TCSS 581
TCSS 582 Cryptographic Protocols (5)
Covers advanced topics of cryptographic protocols, including formal definitions of security, composability, zero knowledge proofs, commitment schemes, oblivious transfer, secure two-party computations and secure multi-play computations. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 3.0 in TCSS 540, TCSS 543 or TCSS 581.
View course details in MyPlan: TCSS 582
TCSS 583 Post-Quantum Cryptosystems (5)
Covers fundamentals of Shor's attack against conventional cryptography and notions of quantum-resistant cryptosystems. Includes the main lattice-based schemes for encryption, signatures, and homomorphic encryption, as well as code-based encryption, hash-based, and multivariate digital signatures. Additionally, highlights research problems and deployment issues of the technique. Prerequisite: TCSS 543.
View course details in MyPlan: TCSS 583
TCSS 588 Bioinformatics (5)
Covers applications of computational techniques in various biological applications, including sequence analysis, systems biology, personalized medicine, and drug discovery. Focuses on machine learning methods in mining big data sources in biology. No background in biology is required. Prerequisite: TCSS 343. Offered: Sp.
View course details in MyPlan: TCSS 588
TCSS 590 Special Topics in Computing and Software Systems (1-5, max. 30)
Examines current graduate-level topics and issues associated with computing and software systems. Prerequisite: permission of instructor.
View course details in MyPlan: TCSS 590
TCSS 592 Research Seminar in Bioinformatics (1-3, max. 5)
Discusses recent developments in bioinformatics, focusing on machine learning methods and integration of big biology data. Consists of reading papers, surveying the latest methods, and tools developed for high dimensional data. Credit/no-credit only.
View course details in MyPlan: TCSS 592
TCSS 593 Research Seminar in Data Science (1-3, max. 5)
Discusses recent developments in data science, focusing on applications and advances in data management and mining for data from a variety of domains. Consists of reading papers, surveying the latest tools, and techniques of data science. Credit/no-credit only.
View course details in MyPlan: TCSS 593
TCSS 594 Research Seminar in Geographic Information Systems (1-3, max. 5)
Discusses recent developments in Geographic Information Systems (GIS), focusing on applications and advances in spatiotemporal, mobile, and sensor data management. Consists of reading papers and surveying the latest tools and techniques of GIS. Credit/no-credit only.
View course details in MyPlan: TCSS 594
TCSS 595 Research Seminar in Cybersecurity (1-3, max. 5)
Discusses recent developments in cybersecurity, focusing on applications and advances in cryptology; network and systems security; and privacy and their applications to different domains. Consists of reading papers and surveying the latest tools and techniques in cybersecurity. Credit/no-credit only.
View course details in MyPlan: TCSS 595
TCSS 597 Research Seminar in Cyber Physical System (1-3, max. 5)
Discusses recent developments in the modeling analysis, security, and control of cyber-physical systems. Primarily consists of reading papers, surveying the latest hardware/software implementation methods and tools developed for cyber physical systems. Offered: AWSp.
View course details in MyPlan: TCSS 597
TCSS 598 Masters Seminar in CSS ([1-5]-, max. 5)
Surveys the canonical literature pertinent to a master's degree in CSS. Readings in research and applied computing are assigned to provide a grounding in Masters level work. Weekly discussions of topics taken from the readings. Not available for elective credit.
View course details in MyPlan: TCSS 598
TCSS 600 Independent Study or Research (*-)
Examines current topics and issues associated with computing and software systems. Prerequisite: permission of instructor.
View course details in MyPlan: TCSS 600
TCSS 700 Master's Thesis (*-)
Provides an opportunity to demonstrate comprehensive knowledge in CSS. Completes a research project led by a CSS graduate faculty advisor. Prerequisite: TCSS 543; TCSS 558; TCSS 598; permission of instructor required
View course details in MyPlan: TCSS 700
TCSS 702 Design Project in Computing and Software Systems ([1-10]-, max. 10)
Provides an opportunity to demonstrate comprehensive knowledge in CSS. Develops a significant design and implementation project led by a CSS faculty graduate advisor. Prerequisite: TCSS 543; TCSS 558; TCSS 598; permission of instructor required.
View course details in MyPlan: TCSS 702
TCES 101 Introduction to Engineering I (1)
Introduces the product development life-cycle. Demonstrates how to use hardware and software development tools. Teaches how the components of an embedded system are controlled. Give experiences working as members of a development team.
View course details in MyPlan: TCES 101
TCES 102 Introduction to Engineering II (1)
Introduces specification and design of engineering project by paring with seniors working on capstone projects. Provides experience participating in peer review of engineering documents. Gives more experience working on product development teams. Prerequisite: TCES 101.
View course details in MyPlan: TCES 102
TCES 103 Introduction to Engineering III (1)
Introduces implementation of engineering project by paring with seniors working on capstone projects. Introduces testing techniques for microprocessor-bases systems. Gives more experience working on product development teams. Prerequisite: TCES 102.
View course details in MyPlan: TCES 103
TCES 201 Introduction to Computer Programming (5)
Covers the basic principles of computer programming, semantics, syntax, variables, data types, flow of control, and memory management. Introduces data structures, abstract data types, and algorithms appropriate to engineering problems. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in either TMATH 116, TMATH 120, TMATH 121, or MATH 120, a score of 154-163 on the MPT-AS test, or a score of 2 on AP Math exam.
View course details in MyPlan: TCES 201
TCES 202 Advanced Computer Programming (5)
Provides students with more sophisticated computer programming tools, especially the ability to design and program in an object-oriented manner, debugging, and testing methods. Includes exposure to medium sized problems in programming. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in either TCES 201, TCSS 142, or CSE 142.
View course details in MyPlan: TCES 202
TCES 203 Programming Practicum (5)
Provides practical experience designing and developing a large, complex programming project. Introduces true object-oriented language like C++ and Java to build on the number of tools available to engineers for designing more complex projects. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in either TCES 202, TCSS 143, or CSE 143.
View course details in MyPlan: TCES 203
TCES 215 Electrical Circuits (5)
Introduction to electrical engineering. Basic circuit and systems concepts. Mathematical models of components. Kirchoff's laws. Resistors, sources, capacitors, inductors, and operational amplifiers. Solution of first and second order linear differential equations associated with basic circuit forms. Prerequisite: a minimum grade of 2.0 in TMATH 126; a minimum grade of 2.0 in TESC 122. Offered: Sp.
View course details in MyPlan: TCES 215
TCES 230 Introduction to Logic Design (5) QSR
Examines Boolean algebra and logic simplification, design of combined logic for decoders and multiplexers, and design of sequential devices including registers, and counters. Analysis of devices for logic networks including, three-state, CMOS, programmable logic devices. Uses tools for schematic capture and circuit simulations. Introduction to state machines. Laboratory required. Prerequisite: Minimum grade of 2.0 in either TCSS 142 or TCES 201; minimum grade of 2.0 in TMATH 126. Offered: A.
View course details in MyPlan: TCES 230
TCES 279 Modern Fabrication (2) NW
Introduces new technology in 3D modeling, printing, laser cutting, and electronic fabrication. Students learn to fabricate engineering prototypes by building small scale artifacts. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSp.
View course details in MyPlan: TCES 279
TCES 310 Linear Systems and Transforms (5) NW
Extends circuit analysis technique to include dependent sources, power calculations, network topology, natural and forced response for RLC circuits, complex frequency, poles and zeros. Introduces Fourier series and Fourier, Laplace and z-transforms. Analyzes filters with z-transforms and difference equations. Prerequisite: a minimum grade of 2.0 either TCES 215 or E E 215. Offered: AWSpS.
View course details in MyPlan: TCES 310
TCES 312 Electronic and Analog Circuits (5)
Physics, characteristics, applications, analysis, and design of circuits using semiconductor diodes and field-effect transistors with an emphasis on large-signal behavior and digital logic circuits. Introduction to operational amplifiers, frequency analysis and response, and filters. Prerequisite: a minimum grade of 2.0 in either TCES 215 or E E 215. Offered: W.
View course details in MyPlan: TCES 312
TCES 330 Digital Systems Design (5)
Examines digital system design fundamentals using programmable logic devices (PLDs). Uses Verilog to analyze and design complex digital systems based on field programmable gate arrays (FPGAs). Uses testing techniques to verify design and introduces operation of digital systems. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in each of TCES 203, TCES 230, and TCES 312.
View course details in MyPlan: TCES 330
TCES 372 Machine Organization and Architecture for Computer Engineers (4)
Covers the general features of computation systems with emphasis on microcontrollers, including an introduction to processor architecture, instruction sets, assembly programming, memory, debug monitors, and translation from higher level languages to machine language. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in both TCES 230 and TCES 203.
View course details in MyPlan: TCES 372
TCES 390 Undergraduate Seminar in Computer Engineering and Systems (2, max. 12)
Enhances problem-solving skills. Includes lectures and problem sessions in mathematics, programming, problem solving, and CES applications. Credit/no-credit only.
View course details in MyPlan: TCES 390
TCES 420 Principles of Operating Systems (4)
Covers the fundamental principles of operating design and function for both general purpose computing and real-time application control. Includes concurrent processes, scheduling, inter-process communications, memory management, I/O, and file systems. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in TCES 372.
View course details in MyPlan: TCES 420
TCES 421 Digital Integrated Circuit Design (5)
Covers digital integrated circuit manufacturing process; design rules; diodes; MOS(FET) transistors; interconnect wires; analysis and design of CMOS inverters; combinational and sequential circuits; arithmetic operators and memory; implementation strategies; timing issues; and CAD tools. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in both TCES 230 and TCES 312.
View course details in MyPlan: TCES 421
TCES 430 Microprocessor System Design (5)
Introduces hardware and software design techniques for microprocessor-based systems. Gives experience designing and implementing a system using current technology and components. Provides the opportunity to interface microprocessors to external devices. Gives experience using state-of-the-art development systems and procedures. Prerequisite: a minimum grade of 2.0 in TCES 372.
View course details in MyPlan: TCES 430
TCES 431 Essentials of VLSI Circuit Testing and Hardware Security (5)
Covers topics related to testing VLSI circuits and hardware security including; manufacturing test fundamentals, fault modeling and simulation, automatic test pattern generation algorithms; enhancing testability of digital systems; design for testability; encryption hardware; testability vs security; misuse of test infrastructure to attack encryption hardware and countermeasures; and trustworthiness of integrated circuits.
View course details in MyPlan: TCES 431
TCES 455 Devices and Controls (5)
Teaches how to control motors and other physical actuators by delving into their theories of operation. Examines automatic control theory and provides experience using computers to control devices. Requires team projects in the laboratory. Prerequisite: a minimum grade of 2.0 in each of TCES 310; TCES 312; and TCES 330.
View course details in MyPlan: TCES 455
TCES 460 Embedded Systems Design (4)
Guides integration of knowledge learned in prior courses in preparation for completion of the senior project in TCES 482. Covers the analysis, design, and prototyping of an embedded control application. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in each of TCES 420, TCES 430, and TCES 455.
View course details in MyPlan: TCES 460
TCES 461 Hardware for Cryptography (5)
Examines zero knowledge proofs, commitment schemes, oblivious transfer, secret sharing, identification schemes, secure two-party protocols, electronic elections, and digital cash. Includes hardware and embedded implementation of secure protocols. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in TCES 430.
View course details in MyPlan: TCES 461
TCES 480 Senior Project I (2)
Covers the preparation for conducting the senior project systems analysis and design and implementation, testing, and delivery. Includes case studies of engineering projects. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in TCES 430.
View course details in MyPlan: TCES 480
TCES 481 Senior Project II (4)
Provides guidance to project teams to analyze client needs, develop problem statements, specifications, and plans for implantation of project deliverables. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in TCES 480; recommended: Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in TCSS 480.
View course details in MyPlan: TCES 481
TCES 482 Senior Project III (5)
Focuses on design and implantation, testing, and demonstration of the capstone design project. Prerequisite: a minimum grade of 2.0 in TCES 481.
View course details in MyPlan: TCES 482
TCES 490 Special Topics (1-5, max. 10)
Examines current topics and issues associated with computing engineering and systems.
View course details in MyPlan: TCES 490
TCES 491 Digital Signal Processing (5)
Examines basics of discrete-time signal and systems, including discrete-time Fourier transform. Introduces key features of digital signal processor architectures. Studies finite/infinite impulse response digital filters. Teaches digital filters design and implementation. Enhances digital processing skills through course projects. Prerequisite: TCES 310
View course details in MyPlan: TCES 491
TCES 497 Internship (1-10, max. 10)
Gives experience working in real-world engineering environment. Demonstrates how engineering processes are conducted within an organization. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in either TCES 330 or TCES 372.
View course details in MyPlan: TCES 497
TCES 498 Directed Readings (1-10, max. 10)
Facilitates pursuit of knowledge in a specific area through readings of technical publications as specified in an agreement with the faculty supervisor.
View course details in MyPlan: TCES 498
TCES 499 Undergraduate Research (1-10, max. 10)
Provides opportunities to pursue research in an area that is of interest. Gives experience specifying, designing, implementing, and evaluating a research project.
View course details in MyPlan: TCES 499
T CSL 510 Principles of Cybersecurity (5)
Explores the basics of information security. Explores introductory concepts of confidentiality, integrity, and availability. Discusses threats, to include malicious code, hackers, cyber terrorists, spies, and other information warriors. Explores vulnerabilities and countermeasures for both computer systems and networks.
View course details in MyPlan: T CSL 510
T CSL 520 Business Essentials (5) H. DEMIRKAN
Provides an overview of the key concepts, tools, and techniques that are required to succeed in today's business environment. Introduces various essential business aspects such as communication, marketing, accounting, finance, business law, and ethics.
View course details in MyPlan: T CSL 520
T CSL 530 Designing and Executing Information Assurance and Cyber-security Strategies (5)
Applies and combines information assurance concepts, processes, and skills to solve information assurance and cybersecurity case studies. Offered: A.
View course details in MyPlan: T CSL 530
T CSL 540 Leadership and Team Dynamics (5) Z. BARSNESS
Prepares students to analyze individual and team dynamics, evaluate the influence of organization structures and processes of each of these, and engage in managerial action that enhances individual, team, and organizational performance. Considerable focus on developing students' critical thinking, communication, collaboration, and leadership skills. Offered: W.
View course details in MyPlan: T CSL 540
T CSL 550 Network and Internet Security (5)
Studies the technologies of information security policies, standards, and procedures. Topics include: security policy design and incident response; and tools and techniques to defend against, react to, and recover from a cyber-attack. Covers cryptographic methods including public and private key algorithms and their applications on confidentiality, authentication, and data integrity. Offered: Sp.
View course details in MyPlan: T CSL 550
T CSL 560 Organizational Change and Strategy (5) T. THOMPSON
Prepares students to be effective leaders and change agents by exploring concepts, tools, and techniques for aligning an organization's strategy to the environment and for creating, leading, and managing change. Offered: Sp.
View course details in MyPlan: T CSL 560
T CSL 570 Cybersecurity Management (5)
Studies how organization approaches technology decisions, including consideration of specific security requirements and goals that technology investments must address in support of the organization's mission. Explores how technology investments reduce the cost and complexity of managing and operation an information infrastructure while maintaining appropriate levels of cybersecurity. Offered: A.
View course details in MyPlan: T CSL 570
T CSL 580 Project Management (5) H. DEMIRKAN
Using projects as instruments that reflect strategic change in organizations, students engage new products, new processes, and new services, leading to renewed organizational competitiveness. Prepares students to effectively manage projects in organizations regardless of the industry and the position one works in.
View course details in MyPlan: T CSL 580
T INFO 110 Introduction to Cybersecurity (5) NW, QSR
Provides an introduction to cybersecurity. Topics include hacking, social networks, privacy, cryptography, legal aspects, social implications, password management, digital forensics, computer networking, wireless security, and ethical issues. Focuses on individual users and their role in protecting themselves from various cybersecurity threats. No technical experience needed.
View course details in MyPlan: T INFO 110
T INFO 200 Programming II for Information Technology and Systems (5) NW, QSR
Examines programming using traditional and visual development environments to learn event-driven, object-oriented design with emphasis on software development best practices for effective software maintenance and modernization. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in TCSS 142.
View course details in MyPlan: T INFO 200
T INFO 210 Foundations of Information Management (5) QSR
Examines the fundamental concepts involved in industry based database design, administration, and usage. Topics include information retrieval, database administration, database models, design theory, database security, and database driven application programming.
View course details in MyPlan: T INFO 210
T INFO 220 Foundations of Human Computer Interaction for Information Technology and Systems (5) I&S
Examines the principles of human computer interaction. Studies issues of computer and system design more holistically with an emphasis on how such systems can be improved through proactive designs. Topics include human factors, human-centered computing and evaluation, effective interfaces, accessibility, legal issues, and social and organizational context.
View course details in MyPlan: T INFO 220
T INFO 230 Foundations of Web Design and Programming (5) NW, QSR
Examines selected topics in technology for web design and programming, paying particular attention to client interactions on the World Wide Web. Studies unique concepts and technologies in developing client-side of a web-based information system such as XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, DOM, XML, AJAX, JSON, and Web 2.0. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in either TCSS 142 or T INST 312.
View course details in MyPlan: T INFO 230
T INFO 240 Discrete Math for Information Technology (5)
Examines selected topics of discrete mathematics and statistics as applicable to students of information technology and systems. Topics include basic logic, discrete probability, functions, relations, sets, hypothesis testing, sampling and description statistics, graphs and trees, regular expressions, and application of mathematics and statistics to information technology. Prerequisite: TMATH 110.
View course details in MyPlan: T INFO 240
T INFO 250 Foundations of Information Networking (5) QSR
Explores computer networking and telecommunications fundamentals including LANs, WANs, Intranets, and the World Wide Web. Studies data communication concepts, models, and protocols. Practices installation, configuration, systems integration, and management of infrastructure technologies.
View course details in MyPlan: T INFO 250
T INFO 310 Foundations of Information Assurance (5) QSR
Studies the need for information security policies, standards, and procedures. Topics include: trust models; security policy design and incident response; and tools and techniques to defend against, react to, and recover from a cyber attack.
View course details in MyPlan: T INFO 310
T INFO 320 Hardware and Software Systems (5) QSR
Examines functions of hardware and software systems. Topics include CPU, memory, registers, addressing modes, busses, instruction-sets, multi processors versus single processors; peripherals: hard-disks and storage, display, device controllers, input/output; operating systems functions and types; process, memory and file system management; and examples and contrasts of hardware architecture and operating systems.
View course details in MyPlan: T INFO 320
T INFO 360 Information Systems Analysis and Design (5) QSR
Examines concepts and techniques for analyzing and designing software systems to meet maintenance and modernization requirements such as changes of business logics, integration, and computing paradigms. Topics include software aging, reengineering, modeling, pattern, process, and cases.
View course details in MyPlan: T INFO 360
T INFO 370 Managing Technical Teams (5) I&S
Examines current topics and issues associated with study and practice of iterative and incremental development and project team management with emphasis on practical project experience. Studies topics like modeling computing projects through the discovery/invention/implementation cycle; learning, experiencing, and obtaining feedback on group dynamics; collaborative relationships; and conflict management.
View course details in MyPlan: T INFO 370
T INFO 390 Undergraduate Seminar in Information Technology and Systems (2, max. 12)
Enhances problem-solving skills. Includes lectures and problem sessions in mathematics, programming, problem solving, and ITS applications. Credit/no-credit only.
View course details in MyPlan: T INFO 390
T INFO 410 Database Design (5)
Provides an overview of various data solutions used today. Covers RDBMS design, performance optimization, NoSQL, object database, object relational database, and big data. Focuses on choosing the optimal database for application and designing optimal solutions.
View course details in MyPlan: T INFO 410
T INFO 431 Server Side Web Applications (5)
Examines selected topics in technology for client/server application, paying particular attention to client/server interactions on the WWW. Studies topics like multi-tier architecture, application server, database server, database middleware, forms, client-side programming, server-side programming, Component-Based Design (CBD), database programming for web application, rich client programming, and web services.
View course details in MyPlan: T INFO 431
T INFO 441 Network Security (5) QSR
Covers cryptographic methods including public and private key algorithms. Examines protocols that utilize secure email, digital signatures, authorization, e-voting, and electronic cash. Examines the fundamentals of security issues arising from computer networks. Includes lab component for demonstration of security techniques such as firewalls, intrusion detection systems, and virtual private networks. Prerequisite: T INFO 310.
View course details in MyPlan: T INFO 441
T INFO 442 Computer Security (5)
Discusses the theoretical and practical issues surrounding computer security and data protection. Explores formal models of encryption and authentication. Examines operating system and program security with vulnerabilities analyses. Includes a lab component for demonstrating computer security techniques such as malware analysis, and access control. Prerequisite: T INFO 310.
View course details in MyPlan: T INFO 442
T INFO 443 Digital Forensics (5) NW
Explores the many facets of computer forensics and network security. Examines intrusion detection, evidence collection and presentation, network auditing, and network security policy design and implementation. Examines the issues and facilities available to the intruder and data network administrator and incorporates hands-on exercises. Prerequisite: T INFO 310.
View course details in MyPlan: T INFO 443
T INFO 444 Mobile Digital Forensics I (5)
Introduction to mobile digital forensics including theory, methodologies, tools, and strategies used by mobile digital forensic examiners. Includes study of case evidence leading the examiner through various approaches and techniques to determine facts to be presented in court and effective ways of communicating and presenting the results of digital investigations.
View course details in MyPlan: T INFO 444
T INFO 445 Mobile Digital Forensics II (5)
Further exploration of mobile digital forensics including the theory, methodologies, tools, and strategies used by examiners. Includes in depth study of case evidence including multiple device cross correlations of data, data carving techniques, and obtaining evidence form ASCII, Unicode, and hex views using regular expressions and other advanced search techniques. Prerequisite: T INFO 444.
View course details in MyPlan: T INFO 445
T INFO 446 Mobile Digital Forensics III (5)
Further exploration of mobile digital forensics. Includes project oriented case evidence to help solve crimes. Includes advanced data carving techniques. Combines all strategies and tools previously studies to synthesize custom solutions. Emphasizes actual case problems. Explores new experimental techniques and tools in the field. Prerequisite: T INFO 445.
View course details in MyPlan: T INFO 446
T INFO 451 Routing and Switching (5)
Examines design and implementation methods of TCP/IP internetworks. Demonstrates techniques for connecting computers in a network and connecting separate networks to form an inter-network. Investigates bridging and switching concepts as well as routing protocols and algorithms. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in both T INFO 220 and T INFO 250.
View course details in MyPlan: T INFO 451
T INFO 452 System Administration (5)
Explores system administration topics, focusing on platform integration, directory, authentication, user support services, and security issues. Examines concepts and utilize techniques in user and group administration, directory services, electronic system update and maintenance, backup and restoration strategies and techniques, integrated mass storage technologies, and alternative client technologies. Prerequisite: ITS core courses.
View course details in MyPlan: T INFO 452
T INFO 453 Wireless Networking (5)
Examines the fundamental principles underlying wireless communications and networking. Topics include wireless transmission principles, protocols, satellite communications, cellular wireless networks, cordless systems, mobile IP, and wireless networking technologies, including IEEE 802.11 and Bluetooth standards.
View course details in MyPlan: T INFO 453
T INFO 461 Organizational Information Assurance (5) I&S
Examines information assurance by exploring the most current methods for securing information and systems from policies and procedures to technologies and audit in the context of the cloud. Topics include fundamental aspects, security mechanism, operational issues, policy, attacks, security domains, forensics, information states, security services, treat analysis, and vulnerabilities.
View course details in MyPlan: T INFO 461
T INFO 462 Building an Information Risk Management Toolkit (5) I&S
Examines current/emerging topics and issues associated with risk management of information technology and systems. Studies topics like security risk in a business and an IT context, security risk assessment models, risk assessment processes, risk-based decisions and consensus, incorporation of risk assessment, and an IT security plan.
View course details in MyPlan: T INFO 462
T INFO 463 Establishing and Managing Information Assurance Strategies (5) I&S
Examines real case studies to expand on fundamental aspects of information assurance, including security mechanism, operational issues, policy attacks, security domains, forensics, information states, security services, threat analysis, and vulnerabilities.
View course details in MyPlan: T INFO 463
T INFO 480 Research Methods (5) I&S, QSR
Explores research methods appropriate for the social and computing sciences. Topics include: problem specification; literature searches; identification of research gaps; selection of appropriate methods; conducting research with human participants; application of quantitative and qualitative techniques; data collection, analysis, and interpretation; reporting of results; and developing a research proposals.
View course details in MyPlan: T INFO 480
T INFO 482 Senior Project (5)
Focuses on detail, implementation, testing, deployment, maintenance, and demonstration of the capstone design project. Requires written and oral reports and creation of a final project binder. Prerequisite: T INFO 310.
View course details in MyPlan: T INFO 482
T INFO 490 Special Topics in Information Technology and Systems (1-5, max. 10)
Examines current topics and issues associated with information technology and systems.
View course details in MyPlan: T INFO 490
T INFO 497 Internship in Information Technology and Systems (1-10, max. 10)
Gives experience working in real-world information technology environment. Demonstrates how the life cycle of information technology and systems such as maintenance, modernization, replacement, etc. is conducted within an organization. Topics are carried into Senior Project II in ITS. Prerequisite: T INFO 310.
View course details in MyPlan: T INFO 497
T INFO 498 Directed Readings (1-5, max. 10)
Facilitates pursuit of knowledge in a specific area through readings of technical publications as specified in an agreement with the faculty supervisor. Prerequisite: T INFO 310.
View course details in MyPlan: T INFO 498
T INFO 499 Undergraduate Research (1-5, max. 10)
Provides opportunities to pursue research in a specific area that is of interest. Gives experience specifying, designing, implementing, and evaluating a research project. Prerequisite: T INFO 310.
View course details in MyPlan: T INFO 499
T INFO 502 Information Assurance, Cyber-security, and Risk Management in Context (4) Popovsky
Examines the concepts, processes, and skills related to risk management in information assurance involving risk assessment, risk analysis, and mitigation planning. Analysis of the risk management process through several structured approaches that facilitate information assurance decision-making.
View course details in MyPlan: T INFO 502
T INST 101 Fluency in Information Technology (5) QSR
Introduces skills, concepts, and capabilities necessary to effectively use information technology. Includes logical reasoning, managing complexity, operation of computers and networks, and contemporary applications such as effective Web searching and database manipulation, ethical aspects, and social impacts of information technology. Not available for credit to students who have completed TCSS 142.
View course details in MyPlan: T INST 101
T INST 207 Living and Working in a Virtual World: Technologies of the World Wide Web (3) I&S
Explores some of the important technological principles underlying the World Wide Web as it pertains to the creation and maintenance of virtual communities and the access to information. Provides a deeper understanding of how these principles can empower one to live effectively in a virtual community.
View course details in MyPlan: T INST 207
T INST 310 Computational Problem Solving (5) QSR
Covers the fundamental framework for developing computational solutions to a variety of problems encountered in the world. Explores methods of analyzing and characterizing problems, and of developing a computational solution. Introduces computer programming, and explores and compares various types of programming methods. This minor is not available to CSS majors.
View course details in MyPlan: T INST 310
T INST 311 Database Management and Data Analysis (5) QSR
Covers methods for transforming data into information through a database management system, how to query it interactively, how to visualize it in a meaningful way, how to share it on the Internet, and how to analyze it. This minor is not available to CSS majors.
View course details in MyPlan: T INST 311
T INST 312 Computer Networks and the Internet (5) QSR
Presents the impact of network computers on society. Introduces a variety of Web development technologies for producing dynamic Web sites. Provides a practical approach to solve Web development problems in a wide range of application areas. This Minor is not available to CSS majors.
View course details in MyPlan: T INST 312
T INST 401 Technology in the Service of Society: A Seminar in the Integration of Technology and Social Interests (5) I&S
Explores the use of technologies as one essential component in solving globally important problems. Emphasis may vary to focus on such issues as the global commons, economic inequities, and population dynamics. Examines public policies that impact technological development.
View course details in MyPlan: T INST 401
T INST 475 Entrepreneurship in Computing and Software Systems (5)
Study of the process of developing a product or service in the field of computing and software systems, preparing a plan for commercialization, and implementing that plan. Prerequisite: either TCSS 360 or T INST 310; may not be repeated after achieving a minimum grade of 2.0.
View course details in MyPlan: T INST 475
T INST 490 Special Topics in Applied Computing (5, max. 15)
Examines current topics and issues in applied computing.
View course details in MyPlan: T INST 490
T INST 493 Technology and Society: a Global Perspective Study Abroad (12) VLPA/I&S
Examines and analyzes the complex relationship between technology and society in both global and historical perspectives, Specific topics include the technological achievements of Ancient Rome, subsequent technological developments in Asia, Europe and America, the Industrial and Information Revolution, and the challenges presented by the world's new economic order. Study Abroad in Italy.
View course details in MyPlan: T INST 493
T INST 498 Directed Readings in Applied Computing (1-5, max. 10)
Readings in timely subjects in applied computing as specified in agreement with faculty member. Prerequisite: T INST 310.
View course details in MyPlan: T INST 498
T INST 499 Research in Applied Computing (1-5, max. 10)
Design and implementation of a research study as specified in a contract with faculty member. Prerequisite: T INST 310.
View course details in MyPlan: T INST 499
T AMST 101 American Art, Place & Space (5) I&S/VLPA
Explores the aesthetic, emotional and cultural power of scale, emptiness, grandeur, and congestion in American places employing interactive presentation/discussion formats. Examines unique aspects of "American" spaces through individual and collaborative experiments, including studio-based art, research, and investigation of the work of artists who inhabit, respond to, and represent "space."
View course details in MyPlan: T AMST 101
T AMST 210 American Cultures and Perspectives: Class, Ethnicity, Gender, and Race (5) VLPA/I&S, DIV
Introduces approaches and questions central to American Studies. Focuses on how perspectives on America have evolved over time, how artists, intellectuals, and others envision America's diverse cultures, and how social issues play a role in the making of American cultures and nationhood.
View course details in MyPlan: T AMST 210
T AMST 420 Drugs and U.S. Culture (5) I&S
Explores U.S. cultural frameworks of psychoactive drug use, development, marketing, and regulation as represented through the arts, popular culture, industry, criminal justice, healthcare, and public policy. Through critical examination of these discourses, considers the complex social politics of psychoactive substance in contemporary American lives.
View course details in MyPlan: T AMST 420
T AMST 430 Queer Performances (5) VLPA, DIV
Examines how sexual identity is imagined and performed in artistic narratives and daily lives. Explores how American performances create and discuss sexual identities, including gay and lesbian identities. Students assess how sexual identity intersects with ethnicity and how theories of performativity shed light on American narratives.
View course details in MyPlan: T AMST 430
T AMST 440 Gender and American Childhood (5) I&S
Examines the ways in which femininity and masculinity are taught to children, and how gender shapes American culture. Analyzes cultural products such as movies, books, to understand how gender I constructed, how these constructions become cultural norms, and how these popular assumptions about gender impact our own lives.
View course details in MyPlan: T AMST 440
T AMST 490 American Studies Capstone (5)
Revisits and frames issues previously raised to develop a more complex and nuanced understanding of American social issues within a global or transnational context. Supports students in developing and presenting their final projects. Prerequisite: T AMST 210; 10 credits of 300-400 level American Studies courses; either TCOM 353 or T WOMN 302, which may be taken concurrently.
View course details in MyPlan: T AMST 490
T ANTH 101 Introduction to Anthropology (5) I&S
Introduction to the subfields of archaeology, biocultural anthropology, and sociocultural anthropology through the examination of selected problems in human physical, cultural, and social evolution. Not recommended for students who have had other courses in anthropology, archaeology, or biocultural anthropology.
View course details in MyPlan: T ANTH 101
T ANTH 201 Principles of Biological Anthropology (5) NW
Evolution and adaptation of the human species. Evidence from fossil record and living populations of monkeys, apes, and humans. Interrelationships between human physical and cultural variation and environment; role of natural selection in shaping our evolutionary past, present, and future.
View course details in MyPlan: T ANTH 201
T ANTH 354 History of the Concept of Culture (5) I&S
Investigates the historical concept of culture, from its origins in the nineteenth-century notions of "race" and "evolution," through its later development in twentieth-century popular and anthropological usages.
View course details in MyPlan: T ANTH 354
T ANTH 365 North American Indian Traditions (5) I&S
Explores major traditional practices developed in Native North America. Focuses on world view, religious expression, the problems of change, and the contemporary viability of core elements associated with these traditions.
View course details in MyPlan: T ANTH 365
T ANTH 453 Health, Illness, and Culture (5) I&S
Explores the meanings of health and illness in contemporary American culture and considers historical, cross-cultural, and literary examples. Studies health, illness, and therapeutic and preventive practices and how they provide crucial insights into aspects of American culture and society.
View course details in MyPlan: T ANTH 453
T ANTH 454 Seminar on Health and Culture (5) I&S
Historical, anthropological, and sociological approaches to the meaning of health in modern contemporary cultures. Exploration of how the expansion of medical, political, and educative discourses about health and health hazards have shaped consciousness, identity, and social practice. Seminar format (discussion-based class sessions and presentation of library research).
View course details in MyPlan: T ANTH 454
T ANTH 464 NATIVE AMERICAN CULTURAL AREAS (5, max. 15) I&S
Historical and Indigenous (American Indian, Alaska Native, First Nations,Maori and Aboriginal) approaches to the meaning of health in modern and contemporary cultures. Exploration of how the expansion of political and educative discourses about health and climate change have shaped traditional ways of knowings, identity, and transformative community-based research practices.
View course details in MyPlan: T ANTH 464
T ANTH 480 Linguistics Method and Theory (5) VLPA/I&S
Examines major linguistics theories in phonology, syntax and semantics, linguistics analysis and argumentation.
View course details in MyPlan: T ANTH 480
T ARTS 101 Play and Place: Introduction to Creative Practices (5) VLPA
Develops creative, collaborative and problem-solving skills in the context of visual arts practice and exploration of the local environment. Explores the role of "play" in artistic process, and develops new ways of thinking and working that allow us to develop creative ideas.
View course details in MyPlan: T ARTS 101
T ARTS 102 World Voices Vocal Ensemble I (1, max. 5) VLPA
Introductory study in singing and musicianship. Performance of different types of choral music ranging from Gospel to Call and Response, contemporary and historic music of world cultures, as well as popular style. Open to all University of Washington students, faculty, and community. Credit/no-credit only.
View course details in MyPlan: T ARTS 102
T ARTS 103 World Voices Vocal Ensemble II (1, max. 5) VLPA
Extended study in singing and musicianship. Explores advanced repertoire in different types of choral music ranging from Gospel, to Call and Response, music of world cultures both contemporary and historic, along with personal vocal study. Open to all students. Corequisite: T ARTS 102. Credit/no-credit only.
View course details in MyPlan: T ARTS 103
T ARTS 110 Music in Culture (1, max. 3) VLPA
Explores music and social expression through innovative and collaborative projects. Investigates roles of music in addressing issues of social justice and resistance, issues of cultural and identity and history, and popular culture.
View course details in MyPlan: T ARTS 110
T ARTS 115 Beginning Piano (3) VLPA
Provides group instruction in the fundamentals of keyboard technique, including correct playing techniques, music reading, elementary music theory, and development of effective practice habits. Intended for the beginning pianist, with no prior musical experience assumed. Portable keyboard required for in-class participation and individual practice.
View course details in MyPlan: T ARTS 115
T ARTS 120 Music Appreciation (5) VLPA
Introduces students to western art music from the following periods: Medieval, Renaissance, Baroque, Classical, Romantic, Modern, and Postmodern. Develops listening skills as the vehicle through which s specific musical concepts are examined. Provides analytical and critical tools to develop a historically informed appreciation of this tradition.
View course details in MyPlan: T ARTS 120
T ARTS 200 Studio Foundation I: Contemporary Art Strategies (5, max. 15) VLPA
Provides hands-on experience in studio art with a variety of visual and performative strategies while introducing them to narrative and symbolic forms. Explores how to use images, objects and interventions in time and space, and learn skills for conceptually-based art making.
View course details in MyPlan: T ARTS 200
T ARTS 203 Body Image and Art (5) VLPA
Explores questions about body image through contemporary art making strategies. Examines how the human body is portrayed in popular visual media, considers relevant art history, and uses drawing, collage, photography, and site-specific projects to investigate the students' stories about the body.
View course details in MyPlan: T ARTS 203
T ARTS 210 The African Diaspora through Music: The Rhythm, the Blues, and Beyond (5) VLPA/I&S
Traces the evolution of the blues from its African indigenous roots, through slavery in the American South, and the cultural assimilation of various elements that influenced its development. Examines the impact on U.S. and global culture, and explores the contemporary African immigrant population in our region.
View course details in MyPlan: T ARTS 210
T ARTS 220 Exploring Classical Music in our Community (2) VLPA
Explores western art music, or 'classical music', through current concert offerings in the Tacoma community. Presents a broad survey of the primary periods of classical music history. Exposes students to current issues in the music business, locally and globally. Attendance of four off-campus concerts required.
View course details in MyPlan: T ARTS 220
T ARTS 225 Musical History of Tacoma (5) VLPA
Explores a diverse range of musicians and musical genres through the lens of Tacoma's history. Utilizing primary source readings, listening examples, and guest lectures by local musicians and historians, presents a survey of the musical history of Tacoma, from the region's native peoples and early settlers to the present day.
View course details in MyPlan: T ARTS 225
T ARTS 230 Issues in the Arts (5) VLPA
Employs interactive presentation and discussion format, culminating in a collaborative community-based art proposal. Topics include aesthetic and conceptual strategies; roles of art and artists in contemporary culture, censorship, sexism, racism, and political issues; and the evolving roles of making, technology, and social media in individual, collaborative, and hybrid art practices.
View course details in MyPlan: T ARTS 230
T ARTS 240 Landscape in Contemporary Art (5) VLPA
Develops alternative means of expressing and communicating ideas about landscape through a variety of art projects and proposals. Examines the changing role of landscape in art and the influences of environmentalism, politics and global culture in those changes. Includes: field trips, art projects, reading, process book, and project proposals.
View course details in MyPlan: T ARTS 240
T ARTS 266 The Artist as Visionary and Dreamer (5) VLPA
Explores art that investigates dreams including dream journals and work with collage, painting, drawing, and photography. Focuses on reading of the artist as visionary and utopian thinker as well as contemporary dream theory as a tool for social change and healing. Concludes with a collaborative, community-based project.
View course details in MyPlan: T ARTS 266
T ARTS 280 3-Dimensional Art and Contemporary Approaches to Sculpture (5, max. 15) VLPA
Examines 3-dimensional images and explores innovations and trends in contemporary sculpture. Covers formal design elements, and historic and cultural meaning. Includes studio projects, process book, reading and discussion, and research project.
View course details in MyPlan: T ARTS 280
T ARTS 281 Art and Culture in India (5) VLPA/I&S
Examines contemporary India in historical and comparative contexts. Emphasizes production of diverse material objects and how they produce and represent value and significance for South Asian conceptions of self, society and the real world.
View course details in MyPlan: T ARTS 281
T ARTS 282 Art and Culture in China (5) VLPA/I&S
Examines major aspects of contemporary Chinese culture in broad historical and comparative contexts. Emphasis on family, self-cultivation, virtues, and artistic refinement in the constitution of unequal social power in China. Examines modern faith systems in relation to Daoist, Confucian, Buddhist, and popular folk conceptions of life and reality.
View course details in MyPlan: T ARTS 282
T ARTS 283 Art and Culture in Japan (5) VLPA/I&S
Examines material production of value and meaning for contemporary Japanese people. Explores a framework for interpreting the present in relation to the past, and recognizing common cultural strategies for cultivating a respected self in Japanese culture. Includes topics of family, gender, work, business, and aesthetics as they relate to various identities.
View course details in MyPlan: T ARTS 283
T ARTS 284 Art and Culture in the Pacific (5) VLPA/I&S
Examines the personal, social, economic, and political predicaments of selected modern island nations in relation to their ancient and colonial histories. Explores complex adaptations and/or rejections of European ways, migrations, contemporary sovereignty movements, and vigorous re-assertions of local mana (modes of power, knowledge, and prestige).
View course details in MyPlan: T ARTS 284
T ARTS 311 History of Rock and Roll (5) VLPA
In-depth look at the musical, social, and political history of rock and roll. From the pre-rock era of the 1940s through the fragment rock styles of the 1990s and beyond. Recorded examples and video clips underscore the tremendous changes in American popular music and culture brought by rock and roll.
View course details in MyPlan: T ARTS 311
T ARTS 314 Rap Music, Identity, and Culture (5) VLPA/I&S
Explores rap music and how it has shaped our society. Examines musical aspects of rap, the culture in which it originated, and the culture that it has created.
View course details in MyPlan: T ARTS 314
T ARTS 315 Music and Crisis (5) VLPA
Examines how individuals and communities use music to cope with periods of crisis. Explores a range of basic human needs and places music within that discussion. Uses case studies of social and political crises to consider how different populations use music to manage in such times.
View course details in MyPlan: T ARTS 315
T ARTS 320 Improvisational Theater and Performance in Everyday Life (5) VLPA
Explores and practices theatrical improvisation as a form of creative expression, with an emphasis on fundamentals such as risk taking, status, support and trust, agreement, teamwork, active listening, and creative problem solving. Also examines connections between theatrical performances and everyday behaviors.
View course details in MyPlan: T ARTS 320
T ARTS 335 History of Photography (5) VLPA
Surveys the history of photography from 1839 to the present with an emphasis on various dimensions of the medium from art to advertising, journalism, photographic documentary, surveillance and pornography. Analyzes the photograph in the context of technological advancement, aesthetics, social and cultural influences, critical and theoretical discourses.
View course details in MyPlan: T ARTS 335
T ARTS 336 Glass Arts (5) VLPA
Covers issues related to glass arts and object making. Includes instruction in the fundamentals of glass blowing, sand casting, relief sculpture, and related mold-making practice. Emphasis on teamwork and safety in the Hot Shop.
View course details in MyPlan: T ARTS 336
T ARTS 360 Women Artists from the Renaissance to the Present (5) VLPA
Explores the painting, printmaking, photography, sculpture, and new art forms of women from the Renaissance to the present, placing their work in artistic and cultural contexts. Situates women artists in the framework of general art history to provide an overview of women artists' careers and production.
View course details in MyPlan: T ARTS 360
T ARTS 367 Ideas Through Objects: A Conceptual Approach to Art (5) VLPA
Explores the metaphorical possibilities within objects through various contemporary art-marking techniques. Emphasis on the development of meaning through the creation or manipulation of objects. Instruction in both formal and conceptual art making.
View course details in MyPlan: T ARTS 367
T ARTS 368 Human Figure in Contemporary Art (5) VLPA
Develops drawing skills and alternative means of expression through a variety of studio art projects based on the human figure. Considers figurative work from the Renaissance to contemporary performance artists. Includes studio projects, a process book, reading and response, and research project.
View course details in MyPlan: T ARTS 368
T ARTS 386 Contemporary Art and Studio Drawing (5) VLPA
Covers principles of drawing. Includes markmaking, outline, negative-positive relationships, proportion, perspective, and composition. Intensive, hands-on coursework.
View course details in MyPlan: T ARTS 386
T ARTS 390 Site Specificity in Art (5) VLPA
Focuses on concepts of site and place through contemporary art-making procedures. Includes instruction in both formal and conceptual approaches to site-specific installation. Emphasis on creating connections and dialog between place, artist, audience.
View course details in MyPlan: T ARTS 390
T ARTS 391 Reconstructing Self in Art (5) VLPA
Covers issues related to the generation of identity and change. Includes instruction in the fundamentals of conceptual object making, self-documentation, and basic three-dimensional construction techniques. Emphasis on problem solving, visual literacy, and presentation.
View course details in MyPlan: T ARTS 391
T ARTS 395 Community-Based Arts Practice (5) VLPA
Investigates community-based art through experiential learning and exposure to contemporary art theory and history. Students create a community-based art project and work with local artists who are developing projects in the community.
View course details in MyPlan: T ARTS 395
T ARTS 402 Eco-Art: Art Created in Response to the Environmental Crisis (5) VLPA
Investigates how art can address the environmental crisis. Experiment with contemporary art practices, creating work that reflects concerns about the environment. Discussions focus on the ways contemporary artists define eco-art, the history of the art that looks at nature, the landscape, and current ecological theory.
View course details in MyPlan: T ARTS 402
T ARTS 404 Art in a Time of War (5) VLPA
Examines art that addresses the topics of war and peace. Analyzes contemporary popular media and how they frame war and violence. Students create art, read and discuss how art might prompt our society to visualize new ways of resolving conflict.
View course details in MyPlan: T ARTS 404
T ARTS 405 Cultural Identity and Art (5) VLPA
Examines the concept of cultural identity and fear of difference. Through reading, analysis of contemporary media and art, and studio artwork, students make art pieces that explore cultural identity using digital photography and text, photocollage, site-specific installation, and community-based art.
View course details in MyPlan: T ARTS 405
T ARTS 406 Labor, Globalization, and Art (5) VLPA
Explores issues of labor and globalization through the art process. Experiments with contemporary art practices, making projects that examine work histories and that follow the global journey of a commodity. Discussions focus on the history of labor art and how art is intersecting the global justice movement.
View course details in MyPlan: T ARTS 406
T ARTS 407 Art and the Public (5) VLPA
Explores issues associated with the creation of public art. Investigates the individual's role in community establishment, cultural politics, memorialization, and visual response to social and political events that shape our communities. Studio course, personal supplies and art display permission required.
View course details in MyPlan: T ARTS 407
T ARTS 410 Community and the Public Arts (5) VLPA
Explores community-based art in our region and culture, with direct experience in research, communication, negotiation, persuasion, improvisation, and collaboration. Students engage in fund-raising, grant-writing, public speaking, problem-solving, documentation, and networking. Guest speakers introduce local social, cultural, environmental histories, and relationships between studio- and community-based art practices.
View course details in MyPlan: T ARTS 410
T ARTS 411 History of Jazz (5) VLPA
Presents a broad survey of the primary periods and styles of jazz during the 20th century in the United States. Exposes students to the most innovative jazz musicians and their music as well as their contributions to American culture through the use of extensive audio and video examples.
View course details in MyPlan: T ARTS 411
T ARTS 469 Art Theories, Methods, Philosophies (5) VLPA
Studies theories, methodologies, and philosophies that have shaped the practice, analysis, and criticism of art such as aesthetics, formalism, Marxism, structuralism, semiotics, psychoanalysis, feminism, and postcolonialism.
View course details in MyPlan: T ARTS 469
T ARTS 471 Culture and Meaning in the Visual Arts (5) VLPA
Considers various ways of exploring the relationship of "art" to its cultural contexts. Covers US or international topics, depending on student interests.
View course details in MyPlan: T ARTS 471
T ARTS 480 Contemporary Art and Society-1945 to Present (5)
Studies major artists and creative trends since World War II within framework of popular culture. Investigates contemporary modes of creative expression within regional, national and international art scene. Frames discussions within context of historical conceptions and critical debates. Current exhibitions serve as case studies. Participation in field trips required.
View course details in MyPlan: T ARTS 480
TBIOMD 301 General Microbiology (6) NW
Acquaints students with microorganisms and their activities. Topics include microbial cell structure and function, metabolism, microbial genetics, and the role of microorganisms in disease, immunity, and other applied areas. Gateway to upper-division courses in biomedical sciences. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 1.5 in TESC 140; minimum grade of 1.7 in TESC 161
View course details in MyPlan: TBIOMD 301
TCOM 201 Media and Society (5) I&S
Explores theoretical perspectives and core issues in the relationship between the media and society, including the production and reception of both news and entertainment. Evaluates the historical, cultural, political and economic contexts of media industries, representations, and audiences.
View course details in MyPlan: TCOM 201
TCOM 220 Social Media (5) I&S
Explores the evolving world of social media and assesses their social, cultural, and political meanings and implications. Develops skills to critically reflect on social media experiences and develop effective media strategies as communication professionals.
View course details in MyPlan: TCOM 220
TCOM 230 Media Globalization and Citizenship (5) I&S
Introduces key concepts in international communication and global media studies such as cultural imperialism, electronic colonialism, and media globalization. Through case studies from around the world, students evaluate their positions as global citizens and explore opportunities for activism.
View course details in MyPlan: TCOM 230
TCOM 247 Television Studies (5) I&S
Introduces the study of television as a social, cultural, and political force. Examines the production, distribution, and reception of television texts of different genres, including news and entertainment; evaluates how television reflects and influences different societies and groups; explores television in different historical periods and through various technologies.
View course details in MyPlan: TCOM 247
TCOM 254 Communication History (5) I&S
Considers communication history as a complex matrix of patterns, systems, and technologies that are central to human history. Includes development of different forms of communication and the intertwining of the history of mass communication with the history of other social institutions.
View course details in MyPlan: TCOM 254
TCOM 257 Ethical Issues in Mass Communication (5) VLPA/I&S
Critically examines the relationship between the mass media and American society. Focuses on the individual journalist as a link between the two. Through a study of ethical theories, and of the social, political, and economic context of the media, evaluates the professional and ethical dilemmas of the journalist.
View course details in MyPlan: TCOM 257
TCOM 258 Children and Media (5) I&S
Examines the historical, sociological, and psychological context of children consuming myriad forms of media. Brings together scholarship from child psychology, television criticism, and reception studies.
View course details in MyPlan: TCOM 258
TCOM 275 Writing, Reporting, and Editing for the Mass Media (5) VLPA
Introduction to writing, reporting, and editing for print and broadcast media. Focuses on developing a concise writing style, passion for thorough, accurate reporting, and a sensitivity to various audiences' needs and interests. Explores standard news practices in news organizations and methods to effectively combine visual elements with the written word. Effective gathering of information and interviewing skills, note-taking and observation.
View course details in MyPlan: TCOM 275
TCOM 310 Contemporary Environmental Issues and the Media (5) I&S
Explores the complex relationship between contemporary environmental issues and the media. Examines how environmental issues are framed and represented in various media, from corporate-owned new organizations to Hollywood films.
View course details in MyPlan: TCOM 310
TCOM 320 Principles of Web Design (5) VLPA
Examines the theories and techniques of visual and design rhetoric to web design. Discusses how purpose, audience, and context affect the development of web pages and other electronic documents. Explores principles of web-based design, creation, layout, editing, publishing, and maintenance through web design practices. May not be taken for credit, if credit earned in T COM 340.
View course details in MyPlan: TCOM 320
TCOM 340 Global TV: Format, Genre, and Reception (5) I&S
Focuses on current issues and topics in global television studies. Explores several case studies of television format from around the world in order to understand the development and evolution of television genre such as soap opera and reality TV in a transnational context.
View course details in MyPlan: TCOM 340
TCOM 347 Television Criticism and Application (5) VLPA
Explores narrative structures and production techniques utilized in television in an integrated manner. Analyzes and discusses critical approaches to television texts and techniques, including use of camera angles, lighting design, sound effects, and editing. Explores the application of basic production to techniques in a hands-on manner.
View course details in MyPlan: TCOM 347
TCOM 348 Non-fiction Writing for Television (5) VLPA
Explores non-fiction styles of writing for television, including news writing and documentary writing, with a focus on the development of stores from a proposal to a script. Addresses issues and conflicts that arise with the linking of visual images and spoken words in non-fiction television genres.
View course details in MyPlan: TCOM 348
TCOM 349 News Writing (5) VLPA
Covers principles of news writing and reporting, including lead writing, Associated Press style conventions, news judgment, and ethical and legal issues.
View course details in MyPlan: TCOM 349
TCOM 350 Editing and Design for Print Media (5) VLPA
Covers elements of print media editing and design including: selection and editing of news copy; headline writing; typography; selection, sizing and cropping of photos; functions of layout; principles of publication design and their practical applications. Students also complete several page design projects as teams.
View course details in MyPlan: TCOM 350
TCOM 351 Video Production (5, max. 10) VLPA
Examination of principles of visual and audio communication, including telling stores using image, movement, spoken words, and other sounds in an integrated manner. Discusses critical approaches to television production and utilizes them in a hands-on manner to develop production skills. Prerequisite: T COM 347.
View course details in MyPlan: TCOM 351
TCOM 353 Critical Approaches to Mass Communication (5) I&S
Critically examines the role of mass communication in producing and reproducing cultural meaning in contemporary U.S. society. Studies various media, including print, sound and film recording, broadcast, and new media.
View course details in MyPlan: TCOM 353
TCOM 387 Writing for Public Relations (5) VLPA
Explores aspects of public relations writing, including news releases for print and broadcast media, advertising copy, speeches, newsletters, and crisis communication. Emphasizes writing for clarity and interest, simplifying complex issues, and conducting effective media relations. Prerequisite: either TCOM 275 or TCOM 349.
View course details in MyPlan: TCOM 387
TCOM 388 Russian Media Studies: From Communism to Democracy (5) I&S
Examines the unfolding of this new quasi-democratic media system, starting first with a general history of the Russian media and following with a focus on the media under Gobachev, Yeltsin, and Putin. Raises questions concerning if and how a democratic press can operate in contemporary society.
View course details in MyPlan: TCOM 388
TCOM 420 Advanced Web Design (5) VLPA
Explores advanced concepts, practices, and techniques in large-scale, user-centered web design. Emphasizes interaction design, web usability, and accessibility; design communication and design lifecycle; content management; ongoing site management; and cross-cultural issues. Prerequisite: a minimum grade of 2.0 in TCOM 320.
View course details in MyPlan: TCOM 420
TCOM 430 Global Networks, Local Identities (5) I&S
Explores historical and contemporary debates on globalization, cultural imperialism, national identity, and global consumerism. Examines structure and content of such transnational networks as Star TV and CNN, and evaluates the impact of these networks on local identities.
View course details in MyPlan: TCOM 430
TCOM 440 Advertising and Consumer Culture (5) I&S
Explores the past, present, and future of advertising as a form of communication by examining television commercials, political campaigns, billboards, movie trailers, and magazine ads. Also explores the industry that creates these materials, the consumption practices they encourage, and their impact on contemporary culture.
View course details in MyPlan: TCOM 440
TCOM 444 Gender, Ethnicity, Class, and the Media (5) I&S, DIV
Discusses the media's powerful sites for the construction and promotion of ideologies of gender, ethnicity, and class. Studies the socio-historical origins of these ideologies, using methods of media analysis to examine their presence in contemporary print and broadcast media.
View course details in MyPlan: TCOM 444
TCOM 454 Communications Law (5) I&S
Examines issues surrounding freedom of expression in the United States and citizens' and the media's legal rights in gathering and disseminating news and information. Explores the freedoms afforded by the First Amendment and shows how those protections are still evolving in the twenty-first century.
View course details in MyPlan: TCOM 454
TCOM 460 Communication and National Development (5) VLPA/I&S
Focuses on controversial origins of development communication and the evolution of this field into grassroots development communication. Examines case studies of grassroots development and entertainment-education in Asia, Latin America, and Africa. Draws connections between remote and local case studies of grassroots development through student-produced video documentaries.
View course details in MyPlan: TCOM 460
TCOM 461 Media and Identity in Asia (5) I&S
Explores dynamics of television production and consumption of non-western countries within their postcolonial and neocolonial contexts. Examines case studies from such countries as India, Indonesia, Singapore, China, and Malaysia. Addresses programming hybridity, audience resistance and adaptation, and the impact of transnational media networks n local cultural identities.
View course details in MyPlan: TCOM 461
TCOM 464 Field Research in Communication (5) I&S
Introduces students to contemporary issues that focus on the local community. Students learn and apply field research methods (ethnography, interviews, focus groups, and field research design) while working with community organizations in a service learning context.
View course details in MyPlan: TCOM 464
TCOM 465 Contemporary Free Speech Issues (5) I&S
Explores contemporary free speech issues in light of their social, political and economic implications in the United States. Examines United States Supreme Court cases and First Amendment theory related to those contentious free speech topics.
View course details in MyPlan: TCOM 465
TCOM 470 Documentary Production and Critique (5) VLPA
Examines theoretical and ethical issues involved in the production of non-fiction genres while shooting and editing short-form, community-based documentaries. Prerequisite: T COM 351.
View course details in MyPlan: TCOM 470
TCOM 471 Advanced Video Production (5) VLPA
Examines the elements of effective video storytelling, including story structure, character development, dialogue, and visual design while shooting and editing fictional short videos. Prerequisite: TCOM 351.
View course details in MyPlan: TCOM 471
TCOM 480 Political Economy of the Media (5) I&S
Examines the historical evolution and economic structure in which media industries are embedded and develops theoretical and analytical tools for the evaluation of media industries. Surveys patterns of ownership and control, government policies, and other issues in media industries, including newspapers, magazines, television, motion pictures, and recorded music.
View course details in MyPlan: TCOM 480
TCOM 481 Communication Regulation and Policy (5) I&S
Examines the theoretical foundation and historical evolution of communication regulation in the United States with the broadcast industries, television and radio, the primary focus. Surveys the current state of regulation in various communication industries in the aftermath of the Telecommunications Act of 1996.
View course details in MyPlan: TCOM 481
TCOM 482 Investigative Reporting (5) I&S
Investigative reporting is demanding, intellectually, emotionally, and physically. Prepares students to undertake quality in-depth journalism. Includes interviewing, researching, and writing lengthy investigative news articles. Prerequisite: either TCOM 275 or TCOM 349.
View course details in MyPlan: TCOM 482
TCOM 484 Opinion Writing for Mass Media (5) I&S
Explores the fundamentals of writing opinion for print, web, and broadcast media. Integrates the basic foundations of news gathering and writing with the skills needed to produce publishable opinion pieces. Prerequisite: either TCOM 275 or TCOM 349
View course details in MyPlan: TCOM 484
TCOM 486 Feature Writing for Print Media (5) VLPA
Explores the news feature writing, with emphasis on developing story ideas, gathering materials, and writing in clear, compelling fashion. Intended for students who wish to contribute articles to The Ledger, community newspapers, or specialty publications. Also covers writing for the freelance market. Prerequisite: either TCOM 275 or TCOM 349.
View course details in MyPlan: TCOM 486
TCOM 490 Communication Capstone Internship (5-10)
Communication or media related internship in the public or private sector, supervised by a Communication faculty member. Prerequisite: approval of internship proposal. Credit/no-credit only.
View course details in MyPlan: TCOM 490
TCOM 495 Communication Capstone Thesis (5)
Plan and carry out a significant scholarly communication or media studies independent research project under the direction of a Communication faculty member. Prerequisite: approval of thesis proposal.
View course details in MyPlan: TCOM 495
TCOM 498 Study Abroad in Communication (5-15, max. 15) I&S
Explores communication topics in international locales to enhance understanding of global-local dynamics. Taught on-site and includes interactions/collaborations with local organizations, scholars, and professionals; visits to exhibits and cultural venues, and participation in community experiences, where appropriate.
View course details in MyPlan: TCOM 498
TCOM 499 Special Topics in Communication (5, max. 10) VLPA
Offered occasionally by permanent or visiting faculty members. Topics vary.
View course details in MyPlan: TCOM 499
TCHIN 101 First-Year Chinese (5)
Introduction to the standard language. Emphasis on learning correct pronunciation and basic structure. Drill in oral use of the language. Open only to students who do not have any previous training in Chinese.
View course details in MyPlan: TCHIN 101
TCHIN 102 First-Year Chinese (5)
Introduction to the standard language. Emphasis on learning correct pronunciation and basic structure. Drill in oral use of the language. Open only to students who do not have any previous training in Chinese. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in CHIN 101.
View course details in MyPlan: TCHIN 102
TCHIN 103 First-Year Chinese (5)
Introduction to the standard language. Emphasis on learning correct pronunciation and basic structure. Drill in oral use of the language. Open only to students who do not have any previous training in Chinese. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in CHIN 102.
View course details in MyPlan: TCHIN 103
TCHIN 201 Second-Year Chinese (5) VLPA
Continuation of CHIN 103. Advanced grammar and vocabulary expansion stressed. Aural and oral practice and structural drills continued. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in either CHIN 103.
View course details in MyPlan: TCHIN 201
TCHIN 202 Second-Year Chinese (5) VLPA
Advanced grammar and vocabulary expansion stressed. Oral practice and structural drills continued. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in CHIN 201.
View course details in MyPlan: TCHIN 202
TCHIN 203 Second-Year Chinese (5) VLPA
Advanced grammar and vocabulary expansion stressed. Oral practice and structural drills continued. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in CHIN 202.
View course details in MyPlan: TCHIN 203
TCULTR 210 Introduction to Popular Culture (5) VLPA
Explores genres and themes across 20th and 21st century U.S. popular culture. Emphasizes the practice and acquisition of the methodological tools needed to situate the interpretation of cultural text (literature, art, music, film, comics, and television) within historical and sociopolitical contexts.
View course details in MyPlan: TCULTR 210
TCULTR 410 Studies in U.S. Popular Culture (5) VLPA
Examines how popular culture reflects and shapes our understanding of a key social issue. Emphasizes the critical interpretation of literature, art, music, film, television, and other media in historical and sociopolitical contexts. Also explores how evolving media technologies have affected popular representations of the chosen topic.
View course details in MyPlan: TCULTR 410
TCULTR 450 Monstrous Imagination (5) VLPA
Explores the role of the monstrous other in British and American culture. Examines the ideological dimensions of the monstrous as a means of understanding the social boundaries of human experience. Emphasizes the critical interpretation of literature, art, music, film, and television.
View course details in MyPlan: TCULTR 450
TECON 101 Understanding Economics (5) I&S, QSR
Examines fundamental concepts of economic analysis with application to contemporary problems. Cannot be taken for credit if credit received for a 200-level TECON or equivalent/higher level economics course.
View course details in MyPlan: TECON 101
TECON 150 Quantitative Preparation for Economics and Business (5) NW, QSR
Introduces students to the kinds of quantitative analysis used in economics and business courses. Uses practical examples to build skills in graphical analysis, use of algebra, basic probability, introductory computer use, and quantitative reasoning.
View course details in MyPlan: TECON 150
TECON 200 Introduction to Microeconomics (5) I&S, QSR
Analysis of markets: consumer demand, production, exchange, the price system, resource allocation, government intervention.
View course details in MyPlan: TECON 200
TECON 201 Introduction to Macroeconomics (5) I&S, QSR
Analysis of the aggregate economy: national income, inflation, business fluctuations, unemployment, monetary system, federal budget, international trade and finance.
View course details in MyPlan: TECON 201
TECON 210 Ethics and Economics (5) I&S
Introduces some basic economic principles such rationality, utility, and market, discusses the ways in which these concepts interacts with ethical issues such as equity, justice, and fairness, and explores how ethics and economics influence policymaking.
View course details in MyPlan: TECON 210
TECON 320 Gender and Development (5) I&S
Applies economic concepts to examine the role of gender in economic and social change. Examines critical debates surrounding households, particularly decisions about land, labor, resource allocation, bargaining power, and education; and the role of internal organizations, laws, and corporations in women's access to economic opportunity and political power.
View course details in MyPlan: TECON 320
TECON 340 International Economics (5) I&S
Examines theory, institutions, and case studies in international economics. Covers theory of international trade and international finance, and analyses of government trade and finance policies. Analyzes role of international institutions. Prerequisite: either TECON 200, TBECON 220, TFIN 220, TECON 201, TBECON 221, or TFIN 221.
View course details in MyPlan: TECON 340
TECON 360 Poverty in Developing Countries (5) I&S
Examines the economic, social, and political factors that explain extreme poverty around the world. Examines patterns of extreme poverty, the relationship between domestic policies and poverty, and the role international factors play in contributing to and alleviating poverty in developing countries.
View course details in MyPlan: TECON 360
TECON 370 Economics and Social Mobility (5) I&S
Explores the relationship between inequality and social mobility. Investigates factors related to social mobility and examines how it has changed over time and across countries. Engages in an analysis of the features of society that help explain the degree to which societies have a level playing field.
View course details in MyPlan: TECON 370
TECON 394 Comparative Economic Development (5) I&S
Introduces a variety of issues affecting Third World economies in a framework that emphasizes their particular and varied post-colonial histories. Draws on economic theory, cultural and economic anthropology, literature, and other sources to understand institutions and sources of change in these economies.
View course details in MyPlan: TECON 394
TECON 410 Economics of Public Policy (5) I&S
Applies economic analysis to public issues, policies, and programs. Provides a theoretical understanding of markets and government policies to examine existing and alternative public policies. Analyzes case studies of government policies, and evaluates and critiques current public policies and alternatives. Prerequisite: either TECON 200 or TBECON 220.
View course details in MyPlan: TECON 410
TECON 416 Current Issues in U.S. Public Policy (5) I&S
Develops student's analytical and conceptual understanding of current key federal public policy issues and reform proposals. Examines the economic role of the government versus the private sector in the U.S. economy, and analyzes issues surrounding the appropriate size and role of the public sector.
View course details in MyPlan: TECON 416
TECON 418 Urban Problems and Policies (5) I&S
Develops and applies economic analyses to an understanding of the dynamics and underlying structure of urban economies and urban problems. Draws examples from the local economy and local problems.
View course details in MyPlan: TECON 418
TECON 420 Economics of Education (5) I&S
Examines topics in the economics of education including how schools re financed and why; what determines the amount and distribution of individual educational obtainment; debate over school vouchers; and the economic returns to education.
View course details in MyPlan: TECON 420
TECON 421 Environmental Policy (5) I&S/NW
Examines tradeoffs between the formal economy and the environment, and assesses current environmental policy. Places particular emphasis on examining and understanding local environmental issues. Prerequisite: either T ECON 101, TECON 200, TBECON 200, TECON 201, or TBECON 221.
View course details in MyPlan: TECON 421
TECON 425 Contemporary Issues in International Political Economy (5) I&S
Investigates pressing issues confronting both industrialized and underdeveloped societies. Includes topics such as the international debt crisis, the changing international division of labor, poverty and inequality in the world economy, liberation movements, internationalization of production and regional disruptions in the U.S. Prerequisite: either TECON 200, TBECON 220, TECON 201, or TBECON 221.
View course details in MyPlan: TECON 425
TECON 430 Behavioral Economics (5) I&S
Examines psychological regularities in people such as over-confidence, desires for fairness and revenge, addictions, self-serving biases, trust, herd behavior, loss-aversion, and procrastination. Incorporates these into economic models to develop theoretical understanding of economic anomalies. Prerequisite: either TECON 200 or TBECON 221.
View course details in MyPlan: TECON 430
TECON 450 Labor Economics and Policy (5) I&S
Analyzes of determinants of labor markets outcomes, and the effect of labor market policy in advanced capitalist economies, with primary reference to the United States. Prerequisite: either TECON 200, TECON 201, TBECON 220, or TBECON 221.
View course details in MyPlan: TECON 450
TECON 460 China's Rise and its Global Economic Implications (5) I&S
Explores and evaluates the implications of China's growth and management of its economy for both Chinese citizens as well as the global economic system. Develops the analytical background necessary to understand the recent rapid emergence of China. Prerequisite: either TECON 200, TBECON 220, TECON 201, ore TBECON 221.
View course details in MyPlan: TECON 460
TECON 461 Current Issues in the Chinese Economy (5) I&S
Explores the most important economic challenges facing China today. Combines lecture with site visits and interactions with local business leaders and policymakers, allowing students the opportunity to study the Chinese economy with firsthand knowledge of experts living and working in China today. Offered: S.
View course details in MyPlan: TECON 461
TECON 470 Economics of Health and Health Policy (5) I&S
Explores health, the healthcare sector and health policy issues from an economics perspective. Covers the demand for healthcare, health insurance markets, managed care, medical technology, government insurance programs, healthcare reform, and the pharmaceutical industry. Prerequisite: either TECON 200, TECON 201, TBECON 220, or TBECON 221.
View course details in MyPlan: TECON 470
TESC 101 Introduction to Environmental Science (5) NW
Provides an overview of physical and biological processes affecting the environment and exploration of current environmental issues. Topics may include earth system science, population and community ecology, evolution, conservation biology, water and air quality, natural resource management, and case studies relevant to the Pacific Northwest. Includes laboratory.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 101
TESC 102 Aquatic Ecosystems in Urban Areas (5) NW
Introduces the ways in which urban water bodies are impacted by adjacent land users. Explores sustainable development practices that target some of these environmental concerns.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 102
TESC 107 Geohazards and Natural Disasters (5) NW
Provides a scientific foundation and understanding of the basic natural and physical processes driving what we perceive as geohazards and natural disasters.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 107
TESC 110 General Biology (6) NW
Provides a comprehensive overview of biological science, including cell and molecular biology, genetics and evolution, the diversity of life, and ecology. Covers the complexity of life from molecules to ecosystems, with a combination of lecture and hands-on laboratory exercises. Intended for non-science majors and environmental studies majors.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 110
TESC 111 Introduction to Astronomy (5) NW, QSR
Presents a unified account of contemporary astronomy beginning with Earth and move outward through our solar system and beyond to the stars of the Milky Way and into the realm of galaxies. Introduces methods and techniques commonly employed in astronomy and their application in astronomical research. Prerequisite: either TMATH 098, TMATH 115, TMATH 116, TMATH 120, MATH 098, MATH 120, or MATH 124.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 111
TESC 117 Physical Geology (6) NW
Examines the fundamental geological processes that govern how the earth works. Includes plate tectonics, the rock cycle, volcanism, seismicity, surface processes and earth resources. Includes required lab.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 117
TESC 120 Introductory Biology I (6) NW
Covers ecology and evolution, including genetics, Mendelian inheritance, biodiversity of life forms, and conservation biology, as well as related chemical processes in the environment. Field trips and labs required. First in a series of introductory biology courses for science majors. Recommended: Recommended co-requisite: TESC 155
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 120
TESC 121 Physics - Mechanics (6) NW
Focuses on mechanics concepts in physics: motion, work and energy, Newton's Laws, conservation of energy, system of particles, rotations, oscillations and gravity. Includes analyses using calculus and lab activities. Prerequisite: a minimum grade of 2.0 in either TMATH 124, TMATH 122, or MATH 124; recommended: Recommended co-requisite: TESC 157.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 121
TESC 122 Physics - Electromagnetism and Oscillatory Motion (6) NW
Focuses on electromagnetism and oscillatory motion concepts in physics: charge, electric fields, flux and potential, capacitance, resistance, circuits, inductance, Coulumb's, Gauss' , Ohm's and Faraday's Laws, and introduction to Maxwell's equations. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in TESC 121; either TMATH 125 or MATH 125.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 122
TESC 123 Physics - Waves (6) NW
Focuses on waves and optics concepts in physics: thermodynamics, harmonic and standing waves, superposition and interference, Doppler Effect, polarization, diffraction, reflection, refraction and dispersion, Rayleigh scattering, and photoelectric effect and quanta. Includes analyses using calculus and lab activities. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in TESC 122; minimum grade of 2.0 in either TMATH 125 or MATH 125.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 123
TESC 130 Introductory Biology II (6) NW
Covers molecular and cellular biology, including the chemistry of life, metabolism and energetics, cell structure and function, and application of molecular techniques to environmental studies. Field trips and labs required. Second in a series of introductory biology courses for science majors. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 1.5 in TESC 120; minimum grade of 1.7 in TESC 141.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 130
TESC 131 Introduction to Chemistry (6) NW
Provides students with a solid foundation in chemistry to aid in furthering their understanding of the natural world. Topics relate to past, current, and future environmental concerns. Serves as a preparatory course for the general chemistry sequence for those with little chemistry background in high school or college. May not be taken for credit if student has achieved a minimum grade of 1.7 in TESC 141.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 131
TESC 139 Preparation for General Chemistry (3) NW
Introduces nomenclature, stoichiometry, and basic atomic structure to provide a solid foundation for the study of chemistry. Emphasizes practical quantitative skills and practice in calculations required for success in TESC 142. Strongly recommended before TESC 141 for students without high school chemistry or equivalent within five years.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 139
TESC 140 Introductory Biology III (6) NW
Focuses on organismal biology including plant and animal anatomy, physiology, and development, in conjunction with applicable chemical processes. Third in a series of introductory biology courses for science majors. Includes required lab Prerequisite: minimum grade of 1.5 in TESC 130; minimum grade of 1.7 in TESC 151.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 140
TESC 141 General Chemistry I (6) NW
Provides a basic background in the structure of matter, stoichiometry, chemical reactions, gases, chemical equilibrium, acids and bases and aqueous equilibria, as well as how these chemical processes affect biological mechanism. First in a series of general chemistry courses for science majors. Includes required lab. Prerequisite: either TMATH 115 and TMATH 116, of which TMATH 116 may be taken concurrently, or TMATH 120, which may be taken concurrently; recommended: Recommended co-requisite: TESC 156.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 141
TESC 151 General Chemistry II (6) NW
Provides a basic knowledge in thermodynamics, electrochemistry, quantum mechanics and chemical bonding, as well as how these chemical processes affect biological organisms. Second in a series of general chemistry courses for science majors. Includes required lab. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 1.7 in TESC 141; minimum grade of 2.0 in either TMATH 116 or TMATH 120.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 151
TESC 155 Biology Collaborative Learning Seminar (1, max. 3)
Enhances problem-solving skills for biology by having students work with a facilitator to strengthen their skills in critical thinking via group problem sessions in biology and its applications. Co-requisite: either TESC 120, TESC 130 or TESC 140. Credit/no-credit only.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 155
TESC 156 Chemistry Collaborative Learning Seminar (1, max. 3)
Enhances problem-solving skills for chemistry by having students work with a facilitator to strengthen their skills in critical thinking via group problem sessions in chemistry and its applications. Co-requisite: either TESC 141, TESC 151, or TESC 161. Credit/no-credit only.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 156
TESC 157 Physics Collaborative Learning Seminar (1, max. 3)
Enhances problem-solving skills for physics by having students work with a facilitator to strengthen their skills in critical thinking via group problem sessions in physics and its applications. Co-requisite: either TESC 121, TESC 122, or TESC 123. Credit/no-credit only.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 157
TESC 161 General Chemistry III (6) NW
Provides a basic knowledge in covalent bonding, chemical kinetics, liquids and solids, solutions, and groups of elements, as well as how these chemical processes affect biological organisms in the environment. Third in a series of general chemistry courses for science majors. Includes required lab. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 1.7 in TESC 151; a minimum grade of 2.0 in either TMATH 116 or TMATH 120.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 161
TESC 199 Preparation for Careers in Biomedical Sciences Seminar (1)
Introduces students to requirements of professional medical, dental, veterinary, and pharmacy school. Explores key issues in healthcare, and exposes students to potential career pathways in preparation for completing the pre-medical/dental/veterinary/pharmacy (pre-MVDP) program.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 199
TESC 200 Environmental Seminar (1, max. 6) NW
Provides exposure to current scientific research and policy initiatives. Includes presentations by researchers, discussion of recent literature, and participation in educational workshops. Credit/no-credit only.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 200
TESC 201 The Science of Environmental Sustainability (5) NW
Provides an overview of the origins of sustainability and the development of sustainability science as a discipline. Focuses on the interactions of natural and social systems and how they affect sustainability. Investigates methodologies used by scientists to measure and develop sustainable systems.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 201
TESC 202 Plant Biology and Ecology (5) NW
Explores the biology of plants from the individual to ecosystem level. Topics include plant anatomy, physiology, reproduction, development, and adaptation; plant population and community dynamics, and plant responses to climate change.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 202
TESC 213 Physical Forces in the Natural World (5) NW
Focuses on physical principles with environmental applications. Explores physical processes that shape and form the environment. Studies the forces of nature and the properties of matter. Includes demonstrations and develops hands-on experimental skills.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 213
TESC 215 Meteorology (5/6) NW
Introduces the processes that determine weather and climate. Provides an overview of basic meteorological principles and explore the cause of extreme weather conditions and air pollution problems locally and globally.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 215
TESC 227 Earth History (5) NW
Provides a scientific understanding of the physical and biological processes that have shaped the Earth over its 4.6 billion year history and relates this to issues facing society today.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 227
TESC 232 Issues in Biological Conservation (5) NW
Considers biological and social issues underlying contemporary environmental problems. Overview of nascent discipline of conservation biology. Studies cases from Pacific Northwest (e.g., clean up of Lake Washington, Exxon Valdez oil spill, spotted owl fracas) which will form fodder for discussions as the scientific and human elements of environmental decision-making are explored.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 232
TESC 234 Biology, History, and Politics of Salmon in the Pacific Northwest (5) NW
Explores issues such as the biology of salmon, habitat degradation, and the impact of salmon loss on biological and social systems through the study of history and political economy.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 234
TESC 236 Sustainable Agriculture (5) NW
Explores the sustainability of technological advances in global food production. Topics include the origins of agriculture, soil ecology and conservation, industrial vs. organic agriculture, integrated pest management, genetically modified organisms (GMOs), and biofuels.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 236
TESC 238 Human Interactions with Marine Invertebrates (5) NW
Considers myriad human interactions with marine invertebrates throughout history and across cultures. Reviews biology of major marine phyla and classes of animals without backbones. Addresses human-invertebrate interactions in ancient and modern aquaculture, aesthetic and culinary arts, experimental biology, bioinvasions, advertising, economics, anthropology, archaeology, and other spheres.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 238
TESC 239 Energy and the Environment (5) NW
Provides an overview of various renewable and non-renewable energy resources, their distribution, availability, patterns of use, and impact on the environment. Evaluates relative energy efficiencies, as well as political and economic impacts on energy.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 239
TESC 240 Human Biology and Environmental Interactions (5/6) NW
Introduces human biological systems with a focus on environmental influences. Explores the structure and function of the major body systems (cardiovascular, endocrine, pulmonary, nervous, and excretory), and the scientific and social issues implicit in addressing human health and environmental issues.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 240
TESC 241 Oceanography (5/6) NW
Examines evolution, composition, structure, behavior and residents of the world's oceans, and geological characteristics of their residential basins. Covers all aspects of oceanography. Required lab section includes hands-on activities, computer simulations, discussion, student presentations, and field trips.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 241
TESC 242 Aging and Biology (5) NW
Provides students with a scientific biological perspective on aging. Students gain an understanding of different theories of aging, normal changes associated with aging, age-related diseases, with relevant discussion on policy decisions regarding our growing aging population.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 242
TESC 243 Geography of the Physical Environment (5-6) NW
Investigates the physical and chemical processes that lead to Earth's diverse, dynamic landscapes. Introduces a geographic perspective on topics including climate and climate change, plate tectonics, mountain building, soils, hydrology, and coastlines, with a focus on the relationship between natural landscapes and habitats of living things, including humans.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 243
TESC 245 Chemistry through History (5) NW
Examines the discovery and development of natural and man-made chemicals processes that has shaped history and impacted society and the environment. Connects chemistry with other scientific discoveries as well as linking to other academic disciplines such as politics, social science, and art.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 245
TESC 247 Maritime History and Science in the Pacific Northwest (5) NW
Examines the Pacific Northwest's cultural heritage, which is deeply rooted in the sea, and investigates the scientific principles that impact ocean resources. Topic include the Northwest indigenous sea-going peoples, the early American and European explorers, current maritime trade and policy, and aspects of oceanography.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 247
TESC 251 Organic Chemistry I (5/6) NW
Introduces organic chemistry, including principles on structure, classification, bonding, nomenclature, and reactions. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 1.7 in TESC 161.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 251
TESC 261 Organic Chemistry II (6) NW
Introduces spectroscopy and the reactions of alkenes, alkynes, conjugated species, and aromatics. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 1.7 in TESC 251.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 261
TESC 271 Organic Chemistry III (6) NW
Emphasizes mechanisms and reactions of carbonyl species and polyfunctional compounds. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 1.7 in TESC 261.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 271
TESC 301 Sustainability in Action (3) NW
Introduces student to the challenges of planning for and implements environmental sustainability on campus. Applies sustainability theory to the design o f effective action. Develops valuable organizational and interpersonal skills transferable beyond the university.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 301
TESC 303 Sustainable Development in Africa - Study Abroad (12) I&S/NW
Serves as an intensive examination of sustainable development concepts in Africa through a study abroad experience. Investigates agriculture, water resources management, and wildlife management, including scientific, social, political, and economic viewpoints.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 303
TESC 304 Tropical Ecology and Sustainability (5) NW
Explores biological and cultural aspects of tropical ecosystems. Integrates concepts from environmental science, ecology, and evolution in order to gain an understanding of tropical ecology.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 304
TESC 306 Animal Behavior (5) NW
Explores scientific approaches to animal behavior, emphasizing behavioral measures and experimental designs. Covers the psychological, physiological, developmental, and evolutionary principles that guide the study of animal perception, communication, foraging, and sexual and social behavior. Considers applications to animal conservation and welfare, and human decision-making.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 306
TESC 310 Environmental Research Seminar (3) NW
Covers essential skills and tools needed to succeed in upper-division environmental science courses. Includes scientific ways of thinking, investigating, reading, and writing. Explores future employment and graduate school options and opportunities.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 310
TESC 315 Applied Physics with Environmental Applications (6) NW
Focuses on physical concepts, with an emphasis on the application of physics and its underlying mathematics, including an exploration of current physical research within environmental contexts. Applied physical concepts include: Newtonian mechanics, work, heat and energy, systems of particles, collisions, and waves. Utilizes experimental skills with weekly lab activities. Prerequisite: TESC 121.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 315
TESC 316 Pacific Northwest Geology (5) NW
Explores the rocks, plate tectonics, and other geologic features, and evolution of the Pacific Northwest, including the Cacades, Columbia Plateau, Olympic Mountains, and Yellowstone. Laboratory includes rock identification, and interpretation of topographic and geologic maps of the Northwest.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 316
TESC 317 Geology, Landscape, and Culture (12) NW
Explores major concepts and ideas in geology and the connections between geology, landscape, and culture through field studies of an area of outstanding geological interest. Includes study abroad, location varies.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 317
TESC 318 Biogeography (5/6) NW
Study of the distribution of plants and animals, as controlled by climate, geologic history and geographic location, dispersal, colonization, and invasion. Examines changes over time in distribution patterns as related to evolution, climate change, and human activities. Incorporates many disciplines including biology, ecology, anthropology, history, GIS, statistics, and geological sciences.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 318
TESC 319 Water Quality Concepts and Watershed Studies (6) NW
Investigates components of a water-quality study, within the focus of a watershed. Covers design concepts for environmental studies, sample collection, and aspects of data analysis. Includes field sampling and laboratory exercises involving commonly measured properties in water studies.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 319
TESC 321 Soils and Environmental Applications (5) NW
Discusses interactive aspects of soil composition and properties and their influence on the environment. Covers soils and hydrologic cycle, soil ecology and nutrients, soil erosion, and aquatic sediments. Includes hands-on analysis of soils and field studies of soil properties.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 321
TESC 326 Pacific Northwest Geology Field Trip (1) NW
One week field trip exploring rocks, plate tectonics, and evolution of the region, to include the Puget Sound, Cascades, Columbia Plateau, the Olympic Mountains. Includes rock identification, application of tectonic principles, and interpretation of geologic maps. Prerequisite: TESC 316.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 326
TESC 332 Conservation Biology Practice (6) NW
Examines biodiversity and its protection through the exploration of local case studies. Lab and field exercises provide context for conservation biology theory and an in-depth study of current local issues. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 1.5 in either TESC 110 or TESC 120.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 332
TESC 333 Environmental Chemistry (6) NW
Explores basic aquatic environmental chemistry, emphasizing practical applications and real-world problem solving. Includes coverage of acid/base reactions, gas exchange, alkalinity, and reduction/oxidation reactions through lectures, field and laboratory-based exercises, and student research presentations. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 1.5 in each of TESC 120, TESC 130, and TESC 140; minimum grade of 1.7 in each of TESC 141, TESC 151, and TESC 161; minimum grade of 2.0 in TMATH 110; minimum grade of 2.0 in either TMATH 116 or TMATH 120; TESC 310, which may be taken concurrently.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 333
TESC 335 Introduction to Geomorphology (6) NW
Introduces students to geomorphology - the study of Earth-surface processes and landforms. Examines basic geomorphic concepts introduced and general landform environments including (fluvial, glacial, coastal, hillslopes, etc.). Prerequisite: either TESC 117 or TESC 243; either TMATH 120 or TMATH 116.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 335
TESC 337 Environmental Geology (6) NW
Investigates the complex interactions between humans and their geologic environment. Examines environmental aspects of natural hazards, surface processes, geologic resources, and local geology. Required lab section includes hands-on activities, computer activities, student presentations, and field trips. Prerequisite: either TESC 117 or TESC 241 with lab; TESC 310, which may be taken concurrently.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 337
TESC 340 Ecology and Its Applications (6) NW
Examines key processes and interactions (e.g. population growth and regulation, competition, predation, symbiosis, and the structure of biological communities) needed to understand basic ecology and its applications. Discussions of ecological theory and data from a variety of habitats are augmented by a required lab section to include field trips, computer simulations, student presentations, and primary literature analysis. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 1.5 in each of TESC 120, TESC 130, and TESC 140; minimum grade of 1.7 in each of TESC 141, TESC 151, and TESC 161; minimum grade of 2.0 in TMATH 110, TMATH 116, or TMATH 120; and TESC 310, which may be taken concurrently.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 340
TESC 341 Climate Change (5) NW
Provides a scientific background to climate change. Emphasizes current global warming using examples of climate change from the geological record. Considers the impact of global warming together with policies and practices that address issues of global warming.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 341
TESC 343 The Atmosphere and Air Pollution (6) NW
Explores processes determining weather and climate and investigates how these phenomena relate to air pollution. Presents and applies meteorological principles to understanding global/local air pollution issues. Required lab section: hands-on activities, computer simulations, discussion and student presentations and/or field trips.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 343
TESC 345 Pollution and Public Policy (5) NW
Examines issues in environmental contamination using case studies from the Pacific Northwest and elsewhere. Addresses relevant scientific information as well as public perception and policy aspects. Through written and oral assignments students gain the knowledge necessary to act as informed public stakeholders. For non-science majors.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 345
TESC 347 Environmental Earth Materials (6) NW
Examines the physics and chemistry of materials that make up the solid Earth materials in environmental systems. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in TESC 117; minimum grade of 1.7 in TESC 151; TMATH 110.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 347
TESC 349 Research at Sea (10) NW
Explores current issues in oceanography of the Pacific Northwest. Students plan, design, and implement scientific research projects, work collaboratively in small research teams in a field setting, and present the results of their investigation at a scientific colloquium following the required cruise. Prerequisite: either TESC 241 or TESC 247.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 349
TESC 362 Introduction to Restoration Ecology (7) NW
Introduces ecological restoration of damaged ecosystems. Covers philosophical base of restoration as well as the social, biological and political forces that impact the success of any restoration project. Includes lectures, readings, case studies and field trips.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 362
TESC 370 Genetics and Society (5) NW
Covers key advances and principles in genetics and molecular biology, providing background to critically evaluate controversial topics in biotechnology facing contemporary society. In considering the social impact of genetic and genomic technology, includes areas of agriculture, forensics, industry, medicine, and reproduction.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 370
TESC 378 Environmental Microbiology (6) NW
Explore microbial diversity and the applied effects of microorganisms on the environment and human welfare. Topics include metabolic diversity, ecological interactions, biogeochemistry, microbial habitats, and waste treatment and bioremediation. Prerequisite: TESC 340.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 378
TESC 380 Molecular Biology with Environmental Applications (6) NW
Focuses on advanced principles of gene expression at the molecular level, emphasizing transcription and translation. Provides hands-on experience applying molecular biology techniques to isolation and characterization of genes from various organisms in research-driven projects. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 1.5 in TESC 140; minimum grade of 2.0 in either TMATH 116 or TMATH 120; and a minimum grade of 1.7 in TESC 161.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 380
TESC 402 History and Ecology of Biological Invasions (5) NW
Explores the population dynamics and ecological impacts of nonindigenous species, their prevention and control, and the ways that exotic species threaten biodiversity and regional and global economies. Examines the rapidly advancing science of invasion biology in its historical and public policy contexts.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 402
TESC 404 Neotropical Field Studies Abroad: Ecology and Community (12, max. 24) I&S/NW
Integrates natural science, culture, and socio-economic aspects of the neo-tropics with hands-on field experience in tropical ecology research. During four weeks of intensive field study abroad in the neotropics plus pre- or follow-up sessions, students explore culture, sustainability, and biodiversity and complete an independent field project negotiated with the instructor.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 404
TESC 405 Introduction to Biochemistry I (5/6) NW
Covers structure and function of biologically relevant molecules such as proteins and carbohydrates. Also discusses metabolism and enzyme regulation. Prerequisite: a minimum grade of 1.5 in either TESC 130 or BIOL 200; minimum grade of 1.7 in either TESC 251 or CHEM 237.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 405
TESC 406 Introduction to Biochemistry II (5/6) NW
Discusses the structure and function of lipids and nucleic acids. Covers the processes involved in the flow of information in biological systems. Prerequisite: TESC 405.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 406
TESC 408 Marine Plankton (6) NW
Investigates marine phytoplankton, marine zooplankton, and their interaction with each other and the environment. Includes field sampling and lab analysis of plankton, and oceanographic biological conditions. Examines plankton taxonomic characteristics related to plankton life-styles and estuarine biological processes and dynamics.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 408
TESC 410 Environmental Science Senior Seminar (3) NW
Synthesizes environmental research methodologies and oral and written presentation skills in group projects developing grant proposals responding to published requests for proposals. Includes research presentations of individual environmental science capstone experiences in culminating course for B.S. degree in Environmental Science. Prerequisite: TESC 310; either T GIS 414, TESC 301, TESC 464, TESC 495, TESC 496, TESC 497, TESC 499, or TEST 495, any of which may be taken concurrently.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 410
TESC 415 Sedimentology (6) NW
Detailed and comprehensive analysis of the field of sedimentology including surface processes, sedimentary petrology, sedimentary environments, and stratigraphy. Includes lab and field trips. Prerequisite: either TESC 117 or TESC 337.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 415
TESC 417 Field Geology (7/12) NW
Field-based knowledge of the geological environment of a specific region and an introduction to geological field techniques. 7 credit offerings are local, requiring in-class and 2 overnight field trips. 12 credit offerings will be based partially off-campus (may include international travel). Prerequisite: TESC 310, which may be taken concurrently; either TESC 117 or TESC 337; TESC 310 which may be taken concurrently.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 417
TESC 419 Environmental Field Geophysics (7) NW
Investigates shallow subsurface geological and environmental features using wave- and potential-based geophysical surveys and physical principles. Prerequisite: TESC 310, which may be taken concurrently; TESC 117 and TESC 121.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 419
TESC 422 Evolution (5/6) NW
Examines the implications of Dobzhansky's statement that "Nothing in biology makes sense except in the light of evolution." Explores evolutionary change by evaluating the evidence that makes organic evolution a unifying theme in the natural world. Discusses evolutionary issues in medicine, agriculture, biodiversity conservation and human affairs. Offered either with a required lab section (6 credits) or without a lab (5 credits).
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 422
TESC 430 Environmental Modeling (6) NW, QSR
Provides the background and skills to understand and use basic mathematical modeling approaches to solving environmental problems. Covers basic models and case studies, and applies models to data using basic mathematical and software programming approaches. Prerequisite: TMATH 125.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 430
TESC 432 Forest Ecology Field Studies (7/12)
Introduces forest ecology, examining forest communities, soils, disturbance and succession, forest pests, and sustainability, emphasizing field sampling and data analysis. Local option (7 credits) includes three required 2-3 day field trips. Off-site option (12 credits) requires one two-week intensive field study plus on-campus meetings. Prerequisite: TESC 310; TESC 340; TMATH 110.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 432
TESC 433 Pollutant Fate and Transport in the Environment (6)
Introduces the hydrological processes involved in the transport of contaminants in surface water and groundwater, and the factors that affect the fate of these pollutants in the environment (e.g., retardation, degradation, and chemical reactions). Using case studies, examines the complex issues involved in remediation. Prerequisite: TESC 310; minimum grade of 2.0 TMATH 124; minimum grade of 1.5 in TESC 140; minimum grade of 1.7 in TESC 161.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 433
TESC 435 Limnology (7) NW
Introduces students to sampling methods, analytical tools, and scientific concepts related to the study of freshwater lakes ands streams and the impacts of natural and anthropogenic processes on these water bodies. Topics of study include physical processes, biological systems, and aquatic chemistry, focusing on human-impacted water bodies. Prerequisite: TESC 310, which may be taken concurrently.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 435
TESC 436 Systems Biology (5)
Provides students with the fundamental principles of systems biology including network circuitry of genes and proteins that can be used to predict emergent biological phenomena at the larger scale of cells and organisms for multiple applications. Prerequisite: TESC 121; TESC 140; TESC 161; TESC 380 and TESC 405, both of which may be taken concurrently.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 436
TESC 437 Stream Ecology (7) NW
Provides a comprehensive overview of stream ecology, including watershed hydrology, stream hydraulics, applied chemistry, biology, and ecosystem processes. Explores concepts by evaluating local Puget Sound streams. Emphasizes activity-based learning. Prerequisite: either TMATH 116 or TMATH 120; either TESC 110 or TESC 120; TESC 141.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 437
TESC 438 Environmental Biology: Marine Invertebrates (6) NW
Examines the structure, function, life histories, ecology, and evolution of major groups of marine invertebrate animals. Lectures, discussions, images, and library research augmented by laboratory work with live organisms whenever possible. Integrates details of biodiversity with issues and concepts from ecology and environmental science. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 1.5 in TESC 120.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 438
TESC 439 Analytical Chemistry with Environmental Applications (6)
Focuses on the measurement of pollutant concentrations in various environmental matrices, including soil, water, air, and biological tissues, emphasizing analytical theory, instrumentation, and methodology. Allows students to gain hands-on experience using modern analytical instrumentation. Prerequisite: TESC 161; T MATH 110.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 439
TESC 440 Environmental Entomology (6/7) NW
Explores structure, function, ecology, and evolution of terrestrial arthropods, focusing primarily on insects. Integrates concepts from environmental science, ecology, and evolution in order to gain an understanding of insect biology. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 1.5 in TESC 140.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 440
TESC 442 Marine Ecology (7) NW
Explores the natural history and interactions among marine organisms, emphasizing Pacific Northwest intertidal invertebrates. Includes all-day and weekend-long field trips to sites around Puget Sound. Includes topics such as biology of coral reefs, kelp forests, estuaries, marine fisheries, and marine conservation. Prerequisite: TESC 340.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 442
TESC 445 Estuarine Field Studies (7) NW
Investigates saltwater estuarine systems with a focus on Pacific Northwest water-related issues. Uses intensive field studies to explore various aspects of the physical, chemical, biological and geologic conditions in a range of local saltwater environments in Puget Sound. Prerequisite: TESC 310, which may be taken concurrently.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 445
TESC 452 Plants, Insects, and their Interactions (7) NW
Emphasizes hands-on exploration of the natural history and ecology of plants and insects and interactions amongst them. Includes a series of all-day field trips focusing on biological issues relevant to resource management and agricultural production in different sites around Puget Sound. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 1.5 in TESC 140.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 452
TESC 453 Environmental Remote Sensing (5) NW
Explores theory and techniques of remote sensing and their application to environmental analysis and management. Basic introduction to microwave, infrared, and passive and active techniques on orbiting and geostationary platforms. Planned satellite missions for the environment. Societal applications of remote sensing. Prerequisite: either TESC 310 or T GIS 311.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 453
TESC 462 Restoration Ecology Capstone: Introduction (2-) NW
First of a three-course capstone sequence in restoration ecology. Students review and assess project plans and installations. Class meets with members of previous capstone classes to review their projects. Offered: jointly with BES 462/ESRM 462.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 462
TESC 463 Restoration Ecology Capstone: Proposal and Plan (-3-) NW
Student teams prepare proposals in response to requests for proposals (RFPs) from actual clients. Clients may be governments, non-profit organizations, and others. Upon acceptance of the proposal, teams prepare restoration plans. Prerequisite: ESRM 462. Offered: jointly with BES 463/ESRM 463.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 463
TESC 464 Restoration Ecology Capstone: Field Site Restoration (-5) NW
Teams take a restoration plan developed in ESRM 463 and complete the installation. Team participation may include supervision of volunteers. Teams prepare management guidelines for the client and conduct a training class for their use. Prerequisite: ESRM 463. Offered: jointly with BES 464/ESRM 464.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 464
TESC 490 Topics in Environmental Science (1-7, max. 7) NW
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 490
TESC 495 Environmental Research Experiences (3) NW
Provides opportunities to complete group or individual environmental science for studies research project carried out within a structured course.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 495
TESC 496 Internship (1-10, max. 10) NW
Environmental science or studies internship in the public or private sector, supervised by a faculty member. Permission based on approval if proposal submitted in advance of the internship. Credit/no-credit only.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 496
TESC 497 Senior Thesis (5) NW
A significant environmental science or studies independent research project planned and carried out by the student under the direction of a faculty member on a scholarly topic selected by the student in consultation with faculty.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 497
TESC 498 Directed Readings (1-5, max. 5) NW
Individual advanced research projects with an environmental emphasis carried out under the supervision of a faculty member.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 498
TESC 499 Undergraduate Research (1-10, max. 10) NW
Individual advanced environmental science or studies research projects carried out under the supervision of a faculty member.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 499
TESC 510 Environmental Health and Toxicology (5)
Introduces concepts and applications in the field of toxicology. Emphasizes environmental contaminants in mammalian and human systems. Prerequisite: TESC 501.
View course details in MyPlan: TESC 510
TEST 200 Fundamentals of Environmental Studies and Sustainability (5) I&S
Investigates knowledge from social sciences, natural sciences, and critical perspectives to prepare students for advanced coursework in environmental studies. Applies insights to actual environmental problems and situations at scaled from local to global.
View course details in MyPlan: TEST 200
TEST 211 Women in Science (5) I&S, DIV
Examines the contribution of women in science and technology throughout history and the impact these women have made on society. Emphasizes the effects of institutions, work, family, and mentors on the development of women in science and technology.
View course details in MyPlan: TEST 211
TEST 213 History and Science of Space Exploration (5) NW
Examines the past, present, and future challenges of space exploration and the impact the space program has on society. Includes the history, politics, science, and technology associated with space travel and the challenges inherent in the colonization of other plants.
View course details in MyPlan: TEST 213
TEST 221 Environmental History: Water (5) I&S/NW
Examines the historical relationship between water and fire, irrigation, grazing, mining, deforestation, and urbanization upon the regional and global environment. Using case histories based on water, emphasizes the sources and methods historians use to study environmental change over time.
View course details in MyPlan: TEST 221
TEST 295 Valuing Ecosystems Services and Natural Capital (5) NW
Introduces students to the services provided to humans by ecological systems. Explores the ecological, economic, social, ethical, and political dimensions of enhancing, sustaining, and also losing ecosystem services.
View course details in MyPlan: TEST 295
TEST 332 A Natural History of Garbage (5) I&S/NW
Examines past and present practices of disposing of civilization's detritus. Uses methods of historical inquiry and environmental studies to get at the roots of one of the fundamental issues confronting the industrialized world: the disposal of waste. Research-based and includes field work.
View course details in MyPlan: TEST 332
TEST 333 Environmental Policy Application and Compliance (5) I&S
Covers practical environmental regulatory compliance. Develops an understanding of the systems, procedures, and forms required for routine environmental compliance. Explores how business, government, and the private citizen interact with environmental regulation.
View course details in MyPlan: TEST 333
TEST 335 Environmental Impact Analysis (5) I&S/NW
Introduces the applied science principles and legal frameworks of environmental impact analysis. Provides an overview of the origins of federal and state environmental policy act laws and regulations, and covers scientific and policy approaches to evaluating a project's impacts on environmental media and natural resources.
View course details in MyPlan: TEST 335
TEST 337 Natural Resources Policy: America's Public Forests and Parks (5) I&S
Explores fundamental and applied concepts in United States public forest and lands policy. Emphasizes political, legal, and administrative issues of federal and state lands, especially forests.
View course details in MyPlan: TEST 337
TEST 339 Washington Environmental Law (5)
Examines Washington State environmental statutes through reading, writing, and discussion of regulations and case studies. Takes a case law approach to evaluate laws in biological conservation, energy, land use, mineral rights, air and water quality, and other complex environmental arenas, and how Washington courts have interpreted such laws.
View course details in MyPlan: TEST 339
TEST 343 Water Quality Regulation (5) I&S
Reviews the substantive elements of water quality regulation, by reading and discussing a number of federal and Washington state statutes and regulations and cases. Requires substantial amount of reading.
View course details in MyPlan: TEST 343
TEST 345 Investing in the Environment (5) I&S
Reviews comprehensively the substantive elements of current and developing global environmental markets in carbon, water quantity and quality, biodiversity, clean energy, and fisheries. Discusses current issues in environmental markets.
View course details in MyPlan: TEST 345
TEST 426 Ecological History Field Studies (7) I&S/NW
Studies human-ecosystem interactions over time. Includes both human-induced and naturally occurring forces. Emphasizes field sampling, integration of cartographic data, archival research, analytic skills, and synthetic writing. Includes required field trips to libraries, archives, and research sites in Washington state.
View course details in MyPlan: TEST 426
TEST 490 Special Topics in Environmental Studies (1-7, max. 21) NW
Advanced course offerings in environmental studies designed to respond to faculty and student interests and needs.
View course details in MyPlan: TEST 490
TEST 495 Environmental Studies Experience (3) NW
Introduces students to project design and outreach that incorporates a combination of service learning and research. May include field work or community engagement or outreach on a variety of topics, depending on instructor.
View course details in MyPlan: TEST 495
T EGL 101 Introduction to Ethnic, Gender, and Labor Studies (5) I&S, DIV
Introduces theories, methods, and analytical frameworks for understanding the intersection of race, class, gender, and sexuality by examining key thinkers, texts, ideas, and concepts from across the humanities and social sciences. Teaches the core values and ideals of social justice that are foundational to ethnic, gender, and labor studies.
View course details in MyPlan: T EGL 101
T EGL 110 Introduction to Diversity (3) DIV
Introduces foundational and interdisciplinary concepts about human diversity in the United States and critical multinational theory. Covers an examination of historical and contemporary issues of power, privilege and difference, and micro and macro methods for creating positive social change, reducing inequality and achieving equity.
View course details in MyPlan: T EGL 110
T EGL 112 Introduction to Indigenous Studies (5) VLPA, DIV
Provides a historical and contemporary look at issues of the Indigenous peoples of North America using an Indigenous perspective to look at the history, law, literature, and film of the Pacific Northwest peoples of the past but with an emphasis on the present.
View course details in MyPlan: T EGL 112
T EGL 201 Introduction to Indigenous Philosophy (5) I&S, DIV
Explores the indigenous philosophical ideologies that frame indigenous thought, perspectives, and worldviews. Expands various understandings of indigenous philosophy, including how epistemology (how/what we know), metaphysics (what is), and ethics (practice) empower self-determination (identity/community), and sovereignty of indigenous peoples.
View course details in MyPlan: T EGL 201
T EGL 202 Introduction to American Indian Contemporary Issues (5) I&S, DIV
Explores the consideration of American Indian contemporary issues and politics both in terms of unifying themes and contexts with regard to local and national situations, needs, and struggles. Expands students understanding of American Indian cultures, accomplishments, and challenges students to place themselves in the "others" experience.
View course details in MyPlan: T EGL 202
T EGL 210 Introduction to Qualitative Methodology and Research Ethics (5) I&S
Provides students and first-time researchers with a clear and accessible introduction to the practice methodology and research ethics. Examines the key issues, which need to be identified and resolved in the qualitative research process, which assists the researcher to develop the ethical skills they need.
View course details in MyPlan: T EGL 210
T EGL 266 Introduction to Labor Studies (5) I&S, DIV
Examines the role of labor in the contemporary United States and in the global economy. Explores the nature of work within market economies, forms of worker organizing, and the interaction between race, gender, and class within the workplace.
View course details in MyPlan: T EGL 266
T EGL 301 Introduction to Indigenous Women and Feminism (5) I&S, DIV
Examines how indigenous feminists' analysis and activism must aim to understand the changing situations, the commonalities, and the specificities of indigenous women across time and place. Students focus on: how are feminist movements culturally and historically situated; and how do representations of indigenous women shape knowledge and agency.
View course details in MyPlan: T EGL 301
T EGL 302 Tribal Critical Race Theory and Critical Race Theory (5) I&S, DIV
Explores tribal critical race theory and critical race theory as an analytical framework that provides race-based epistemological, methodological, and pedagogical approaches to the study of everyday inequalities in education and racialized lived experiences. Examines its utility and limitations, and considers its application to transform inequities.
View course details in MyPlan: T EGL 302
T EGL 303 Introduction to American Indian Education (5) I&S, DIV
Examines the legacy of American Indian educational policies, practices, and impacts of the United States forced cultural assimilation through boarding schools. Students focus on: how American Indian boarding schools became an integral part of a historical assault on cultural and traditional identity.
View course details in MyPlan: T EGL 303
T EGL 304 Indigenous Ethnoecology (5) I&S, DIV
Explores traditional Indigenous knowledge as a process, rather than as content. Demonstrates the importance of bridging traditional ecological knowledge to western ecology, and highlights the cultural and political significance of such knowledge for Indigenous groups themselves.
View course details in MyPlan: T EGL 304
T EGL 305 The American Indian Movement (5) I&S, DIV
Traces the American Indian Movement from its beginning to its legacy using period specific literature. Explores what writings inspired the American Indian Movement and what writings the movement inspired. Dedicates a significant portion of the class to student-centered research on the local AIM movement.
View course details in MyPlan: T EGL 305
T EGL 340 Intersections: Race, Gender, and Sexuality in a Global Persptive (5) I&S, DIV
Examines the interrelationship between gender, race, class, sexuality, religion, and nationality and how these concepts vary across cultures. Focuses on the political, social, and cultural impact of large historical processes, such as capitalism and imperialism; slavery; nationalism; transnationalism; globalization; war and violence; and migration and diaspora.
View course details in MyPlan: T EGL 340
T EGL 365 Indigenous Ethnobiology (5) I&S, DIV
Examines Indigenous ethnobiology - cultural knowledge of plants and animal - and the nature of traditional knowledge through the use of plants (ethnobotany) and animals (ethnozoology) and an examination of contemporary Indigenous issues: traditional versus commercial intellectual property rights to genetic and ecological diversity and medicinal plants, conservation, and traditional societies.
View course details in MyPlan: T EGL 365
T EGL 380 Gender and Sexuality Across Cultural and Historical Contexts (5) I&S, DIV
Examines the embodied performances and politics of gender in a variety of contexts. Explores different definitions, constructions, and theoretical perceptions of gender and sexuality. Develops a deeper understanding of gender and sexuality in different cultures and historic moments through sociological and historical comparisons.
View course details in MyPlan: T EGL 380
T EGL 401 Critical and Indigenous Methodologies (5) I&S, DIV
Explores how diverse indigenous and non-indigenous voices informed research, policy, politics, and the transformative frameworks of social justice. Examines the history of critical and indigenous theories and how it came to inform and impact qualitative research, and emphasizes reflective and applied learning. Prerequisite: T EGL 210.
View course details in MyPlan: T EGL 401
T EGL 419 African-American Culture and Consciousness (5) I&S, DIV
Examines African-American culture and consciousness from slavery to present. Readings focus on the construction of African-American culture, racial identity, social consciousness, political thought, oppression and resistance, and the confluence of race, class and gender in shaping cultural expressions such as Blues, Jazz, Hip-Hop and aesthetics.
View course details in MyPlan: T EGL 419
T EGL 435 Migration in the Modern World: Migrants, Immigrants, and Refugees (5) I&S, DIV
Examination of the dynamics of international migration in the modern world, with a focus on selected sending and receiving societies (western and non-western). Investigates both macro-economic and political influences on migration, as well as the involvement of social networks and households. Explores the diversity of population movements in historical perspective and in the context of competing theories of migration, settlement, and adaptation.
View course details in MyPlan: T EGL 435
T EGL 464 Indigenous Health, Political Ethnoecology and Governance (5, max. 15) I&S, DIV
Examines the historical and indigenous (American Indian, Alaska Native, First Nations, Maori and Aboriginal) approaches to the meaning of health in modern and contemporary cultures, and how governance and educative discourse about health and ethnoecology have shaped post-colonial models of Indigenous health.
View course details in MyPlan: T EGL 464
T FILM 272 Film Studies (5) VLPA
Introduction to the languages and forms of cinema. Topics include narrative and non-narrative film; mise-en-scene, cinematography, and editing; the soundtrack; film directors, genres, and historical movements.
View course details in MyPlan: T FILM 272
T FILM 348 Film and Human Values (5, max. 10) VLPA/I&S
Examines contemporary and classical films in order to explore how they might disclose different dimensions of human meaning, value, virtue or their opposites. Analyzes how film has become a major part of twentieth-century existence, experience and expression. Views, discusses and analyzes selected films.
View course details in MyPlan: T FILM 348
T FILM 350 Screenwriting (5) VLPA
Introduction to the fundamentals of theme, plot, character, and dialogue in writing for film and television. Students develop scripts, focusing on one central conflict, working in a workshop class format.
View course details in MyPlan: T FILM 350
T FILM 386 Silent Cinema (5) VLPA
Surveys film history from 1895 to 1927. Studies masterpieces of international cinema in historical, aesthetic, technological, and social contexts.
View course details in MyPlan: T FILM 386
T FILM 387 World Film 1927-1959 (5) VLPA
Examines major cinematic movements, trends, and individual works between 1927 and 1959. Considers films as art; as responses to social, political, economic, technological, and cultural conditions; and as transnational media phenomena.
View course details in MyPlan: T FILM 387
T FILM 388 World Film 1960-2000 (5) VLPA
Examines major cinematic movements, trends, and individual works between 1960 and 2000. Considers films as art, as responses to social, political, economic, technological, and cultural conditions, and ad transnational media phenomena.
View course details in MyPlan: T FILM 388
T FILM 420 Contemporary World Cinema (5) VLPA
Study of trends in current international cinema: genres, geographical areas, technology, economics, and criticism.
View course details in MyPlan: T FILM 420
T FILM 440 Writing Film Criticism (5) VLPA
Explores the practice of film criticism through intensive reading and discussion of films and through writing and peer reviewing. Builds and understanding of the differences between film reviewing and criticism, and the importance of audience, style and approach. Prerequisite: One 300 or 400 level film class.
View course details in MyPlan: T FILM 440
T FILM 474 Russian History and the Soviet Film (5) I&S
Examines the major events of the Russian past by using Russian and Soviet films as primary resources. Provides an opportunity for a dialogue between the facts of Russian history and the esthetic and ideological views of Russian and Soviet cinema.
View course details in MyPlan: T FILM 474
T FILM 481 Film Theory and Aesthetics (5) VLPA
Examines 20th century's major film theorists' conception of the raw materials, forms, and values and effects of the film medium. Considers how critical theory adds to the understanding and enjoyment of film. Explores how commercial and experimental films exemplify and challenge ideas presented in readings.
View course details in MyPlan: T FILM 481
T FILM 483 Film Directors (5, max. 10) VLPA
Examines the idea of film authorship: does film, most often an industrial and collaborative medium, allow for the director's "individual" expression? Can we speak of a Woody Allen film in the same way that we speak of a Shakespeare play or a Jane Austen novel?
View course details in MyPlan: T FILM 483
T FILM 484 French Cinema (5) VLPA
Provides an overview of the art of film in France from 1895 to the present. Includes readings and screenings which place the study of French film culture in its historical, economic, social, political, philosophical, and aesthetic contexts.
View course details in MyPlan: T FILM 484
T FILM 485 Media Genres (5, max. 10) VLPA
Study of genre, the thematic classification of films (e.g. westerns, musicals) and television programming. Topics vary, but can include comedy, news/documentary, musical, and social-problem melodramas.
View course details in MyPlan: T FILM 485
T FILM 486 Feminist Perspectives in Film and Literature (5) VLPA, DIV
Examines distinctions between male and female readers/viewers. Explores a variety of literary works and films by women, as well as a selection of relevant essays in feminist criticism.
View course details in MyPlan: T FILM 486
T FILM 488 Gender and Sexuality in Film (5) VLPA, DIV
Examines the intersection of gender, sexuality, and film to consider how cinematic representations shape and reflect ideas about masculinity, femininity, heterosexuality, and homosexuality, as well as social identities that fall outside these categories.
View course details in MyPlan: T FILM 488
T FILM 499 Special Topics in Film Studies (5, max. 10) VLPA
Offered occasionally by permanent or visiting faculty members. Topics vary.
View course details in MyPlan: T FILM 499
T GEOG 101 Introduction to Geography (5) I&S
Broad introduction to the field of geography within the context of globalization. Topics include the relationship between humans and their environment, the role of culture in landscape change, economic development, geopolitics, and urban systems.
View course details in MyPlan: T GEOG 101
T GEOG 210 Geographies of Global Change (3) I&S Coffey
Introduces aspects of the economic, political, social, and environmental changes the world is experiencing and the new geographies being brought about by these changes. Includes such topics as population growth, environmental degradation and sustainability, food security, urbanization, poverty and inequality, development, the geopolitical arena, and the role of international organizations.
View course details in MyPlan: T GEOG 210
T GEOG 321 Urban Geography (5) I&S Coffey
Examines the spatial organization of cities in relation to the economic, social, cultural, and political forces that shape them. Includes such topics as the evolution of cities, perceptions of urban space, gentrification, race and housing, homelessness, social exclusion, urban redevelopment, suburbanization, and planning. Emphasizes U.S. cities.
View course details in MyPlan: T GEOG 321
T GEOG 349 Geography and International Trade (5) I&S
Introduces theories, policies, geographic patterns, and practices of international trade and foreign direct investment. Topics include: trade theory and policy; economic integration; currency markets and foreign exchange; trade operations and logistics; the international regulatory environment; and marketing, location and entry, and finance, accounting, and taxation. Equivalent to GEOG 349.
View course details in MyPlan: T GEOG 349
T GEOG 352 Cultural Geography (5) I&S
Cultural components and the analysis of the role of culture in the formation of landscape patterns and the development of a sense of place. Emphasizes issues and problems generated by globalization.
View course details in MyPlan: T GEOG 352
T GEOG 403 Geography of the United States of America and Canada (5) NW
Regional study of the United States and Canada based upon physical and cultural features. Examines continental and regional variations in terrain, climate, vegetation, economic, and social life of the United States and Canada, with emphasis on geographical principles, sources of data, and techniques of investigation.
View course details in MyPlan: T GEOG 403
T GEOG 420 Gender, Space and Culture (5) I&S, DIV Knoop
Considers gender differences in experiences of space and place; the relationship between gender, geopolitics, and geographies of cities, regions, nation-states, and other social institutions; and gender differences in "making place" and interacting with environments. It considers multiple and competing theoretical perspectives, but especially feminist and queer ones.
View course details in MyPlan: T GEOG 420
T GEOG 435 Contemporary Geopolitics (5) I&S
Explores geopolitical concepts and relates them to contemporary global issues and debates. Examines both the influence of geography on politics and the geography of politics.
View course details in MyPlan: T GEOG 435
T GEOG 440 Political Geography: Territory, State and Society (5) I&S Dierwechter
Introduction to political geography from the perspective of political economy and the politics of difference. Discusses both critical approaches to human geography and geographical interpretations of the state. Emphasizes spatial dimensions of capitalist development as mediated by urban, national and global politics. Offered: Sp.
View course details in MyPlan: T GEOG 440
T GH 203 Themes in Global Honors (5)
Explores connections between the local and global, and between the individual, the community, and the world, through a given theme. Draws on broad interdisciplinary and international perspectives.
View course details in MyPlan: T GH 203
T GH 300 Re-Orienting the Global (2) I&S McMillin
Provides historically grounded introduction to such concepts as cultural imperialism, colonialism, post colonialism, capitalism, and globalization. Examines relevance of concepts in current global affairs. Provides information on study abroad and service-learning opportunities, as well as expectations of the Global Honors Program.
View course details in MyPlan: T GH 300
T GH 301 Global Honors (5) I&S
Examines the major intellectual and political movements that marked the human experience in the 20th century. Examines nationalism, fascism, and other political philosophies, as well as governments' relationships to the natural environment and to one another.
View course details in MyPlan: T GH 301
T GH 302 Global Imaginations (5) VLPA
Accommodates the study of major themes, concepts, trends or techniques that permeate world literature, visual arts, music, dance, theatre and other forms of creative expression. The specific art forms and issues examined vary. Also considers marginalized forms of aesthetic expression that have generated cross-cultural debate about modern concepts of "art" and their relation to diverse forms of meaning and value.
View course details in MyPlan: T GH 302
T GH 303 Global Challenges (5) I&S
Examines major challenges facing the world in the 21st century. Covers contemporary issues as economic development, poverty and the distribution of resources, ecological concerns, public health, global conflict, nationalism, race, religion, and human rights.
View course details in MyPlan: T GH 303
T GH 399 Global Honors Study Abroad (3-15, max. 15)
Offered: AWSpS.
View course details in MyPlan: T GH 399
T GH 490 Research Methods Seminar (2)
Methods seminar required for seniors in the Global Honors program who are preparing their senior thesis or project. Prerequisite: T GH 301; T GH 302; T GH 303. Offered: AW.
View course details in MyPlan: T GH 490
T GH 491 Thesis Symposium (1)
Corequisite: T GH 494. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: W.
View course details in MyPlan: T GH 491
T GH 494 Thesis or Project for Global Honors - (4-5, max. 10)
Research and completion of a thesis or project approved and supervised by a full-time UWT faculty member on a significant scholarly topic, for students admitted to the Global Honors Program. Prerequisite: T GH 301; T GH 302; T GH 303; T GH 490. Offered: AWSpS.
View course details in MyPlan: T GH 494
T GH 496 Experiential Learning in Global Honors (5)
Uses globally-focuses experiential learning projects such as internships, community service to locally-based international or immigrant populations, or realted work intended to develop an appreciation of the processes of globalization. Integrates experience with theoretical understanding of globalization and global citizenship. Offered: AWSpS.
View course details in MyPlan: T GH 496
T HISP 238 Hispanics in the United States (5) VLPA/I&S, DIV
Provides overview of the diverse groups of people who are called "Hispanic" in the U.S., with emphasis on the significant cultural, political and economic influence that Hispanics have had on U.S. society. Examines literature, film, television shows, internet sites, popular magazines, music and folk art as forms of cultural expression, and discusses how they reflect and interact with political issues.
View course details in MyPlan: T HISP 238
T HISP 250 Images of Latinos/as in the Movies (5) VLPA, DIV
Examines images of Latinos/as in Hollywood films and how Latinos/as subverts those stereotypical representations. Topics include issues of racial prejudice, stereotypes, gendered and ethnic identities, social justice, and self-representation. No knowledge of Spanish required.
View course details in MyPlan: T HISP 250
T HISP 267 Introduction to Chicano/a Literature (5) VLPA, DIV
Provides an introduction to chicano/a literature to understand the historical, social, and cultural contexts in which literary works were produced. Topics include issues of hybrid cultures(s), gendered and ethnic identities, social justice, and language in our analyses of novels, short stories, essays, poetry, and drama. No knowledge of Spanish required.
View course details in MyPlan: T HISP 267
T HISP 277 Latin American Literature (5) VLPA
Introduction to Latin American literature in English translation, with emphasis on how literary texts reflect culture. Includes works of fiction, non-fiction, poetry, and drama from Mexico, the Caribbean, and Central and South America.
View course details in MyPlan: T HISP 277
T HISP 355 Migration and the Transnational Family in Latino Literature and Film (5) VLPA/I&S, DIV
Focuses on contemporary Latin American migration to the U.S. and transnational families in U.S. Latino texts and films. Topics include factors that perpetuate transnational migration, the personal impact of migration, and the consequent re-negotiation of gender, national, and ethnic identities. No knowledge of Spanish required.
View course details in MyPlan: T HISP 355
T HISP 376 Latin American Film (5) VLPA
Examines the ways in which Latin American film reflects history, society, class, and gender issues. Develops understanding of film as an art form within a specific formal cultural context. Films in Spanish or Portuguese with English subtitles. No knowledge of Spanish required.
View course details in MyPlan: T HISP 376
T HISP 377 Spanish Film (5) VLPA
Examines the ways in which Peninsular Spanish film reflects history, society, class, and gender issues. Develops understanding of film as an art form within a specific cultural context. Films in Spanish with English subtitles. No knowledge of Spanish required.
View course details in MyPlan: T HISP 377
T HISP 400 Afro-Hispanic Culture (5) VLPA
Uses literary texts in translation, film, music, and art as a basis for exploring the importance of Afro-Hispanic in the development of the cultural richness of Latin America. Focus on issues of race, gender, self-representation and nationalism from an interdisciplinary perspective.
View course details in MyPlan: T HISP 400
T HISP 410 Caribbean Basin: Selected Topics (5, max. 10) I&S
Covers selected themes concerning the region comprised of the Caribbean Islands, Central America, Venezuela, and Colombia. May be repeated for credit with instructor's approval.
View course details in MyPlan: T HISP 410
T HISP 441 Mexican Cinema and Society (5) I&S/VLPA
Examines development of Mexican cinema in its historical and social context. Covers how films reflect history, society, class, and gender issues. Provides an understanding of Mexican culture, and of film as an art form. No knowledge of Spanish is required.
View course details in MyPlan: T HISP 441
T HISP 461 Contemporary Mexican Culture (5) VLPA
Uses contemporary literary texts in translation, film, music, and art as a basis for exploring the ways Mexicans see themselves and the world around them. Focuses on class, race, and gender issues from an interdisciplinary perspective. Taught in English. Topics vary.
View course details in MyPlan: T HISP 461
T HISP 462 Women in Latin America (5) VLPA/I&S, DIV
Uses memoirs, letters, histories, biographies, literary texts in translation, film, and music as a means of exploring the lives of women in Latin America. Examines a variety of gender issues from an interdisciplinary perspective. No knowledge of Spanish required.
View course details in MyPlan: T HISP 462
T HISP 463 Contemporary Cuban Culture (5) VLPA
Examines contemporary Cuban literature in English translation, film, music, dance, and the visual arts in Cuba as a representation of cultural identity. Focuses on class, race, and gender issues from an interdisciplinary perspective. Includes work by Cubans on the island and in exile. No knowledge of Spanish required.
View course details in MyPlan: T HISP 463
T HISP 465 Latin American Visual Arts (5) VLPA
Uses visual art as a basis for exploring different cultural/historical issues in Latin America in the twentieth century. Focuses on issues of colonization, self-representation, nationalisms, globalizations, and cultural appropriation from an interdisciplinary perspective.
View course details in MyPlan: T HISP 465
T HISP 476 Latin American Women Writers (5) VLPA
Examines novels, short stories, poetry, drama, and essays by contemporary Latin American women writers. Includes such themes as dictatorship, political and sexual repression, colonialism, racism, class issues, and the obstacles faced by women writers in a society where they are often considered second-class citizens.
View course details in MyPlan: T HISP 476
T HISP 490 Contemporary Spanish Culture (5) VLPA/I&S
Uses contemporary literary texts in translation, film, music, and art as a basis for exploring the way Spanish people construct their identity and relate to the outside world. Focuses on issues of gender, immigration, racism, terrorism and nationalisms form an interdisciplinary perspective. Taught in English.
View course details in MyPlan: T HISP 490
T HIST 102 Introduction to Global Studies (5) I&S
Introduces interdisciplinary study of global phenomena and the basic methods for their assessment. Analyzes survey of trans- national, -regional, and -geographic trends, perspectives, and content topics. Emphasizes the mechanisms of the transmission and causal relations of social, cultural, political, and scientific developments and their respective spheres of influence.
View course details in MyPlan: T HIST 102
T HIST 111 The Ancient World (5) I&S
Origins of Western civilization to the fall of Rome.
View course details in MyPlan: T HIST 111
T HIST 112 The Medieval World (5) I&S
Political, economic, social, and intellectual history of the Middle Ages. Cannot be taken for credit toward a history major if HSTAM 331 or 332 or 333 previously taken.
View course details in MyPlan: T HIST 112
T HIST 150 World History: Prehistory to 1500 (5) I&S
Surveys the social, political, economic, and cultural history of the world from Prehistory to the 15th century. May not be taken if student has already taken TCXG 230.
View course details in MyPlan: T HIST 150
T HIST 151 World History II 1500 to Present (5) I&S
Surveys the social, political, economic, and cultural history of the world from the end of the 15th century to the present.
View course details in MyPlan: T HIST 151
T HIST 200 American History I, 1607-1877 (5) I&S
Introduces, surveys, and analyzes American history from 1607-1877. Traces political, economic, social, and cultural trends of America's Colonial, Revolutionary, Early National, Antebellum, Civil War, and Reconstruction eras.
View course details in MyPlan: T HIST 200
T HIST 201 American History II, 1877-present (5) I&S
Introduces, surveys, and analyzes American history from 1877-present. Traces the major political, economic, social, and cultural trends of the American eras of Industrial Revolution, Progressivism, 1920s, FDR and the New Deal, World War II, Cold War, 1960s, and Reaganism to the present day.
View course details in MyPlan: T HIST 201
T HIST 202 Global Theories and Methods (5) VLPA/I&S
Familiarizes students with recent theories and methods toward understanding, interpreting, and analyzing interconnected causes and effect within the global sphere over extended periods of times.
View course details in MyPlan: T HIST 202
T HIST 203 Modern Europe in Global History (5) I&S
Examines modern European history in relationship to global history including cultural, intellectual, social, political, and economic interchanges between Europe, Asia, Africa, and the Americas since the European Renaissance.
View course details in MyPlan: T HIST 203
T HIST 212 American Military History I (5) I&S
Explores how early Americans conducted military campaigns from colonial times to 1939, looking at the impact of political, economic, cultural, historical, and technological factors shaping how America fought prior to WW II.
View course details in MyPlan: T HIST 212
T HIST 213 American Military History II (5) I&S
Explores how modern American conducts military campaigns from 1939 to the present looking at the impact of political, economic, cultural, historical, and technological factors shaping how America fought after WW II.
View course details in MyPlan: T HIST 213
T HIST 220 African American History 1619-1865 (5) I&S, DIV
Examines the social, political, economic and cultural history of African Americans in the United States from 1619-1865. Covers West African origins, the trans-Atlantic slave trade, slavery in the Americans, African American identities, and Black life in the Ante-bellum era.
View course details in MyPlan: T HIST 220
T HIST 221 African-American History 1865-1945 (5) I&S, DIV
Examines construction of the 'Jim Crow' system of racial segregation in the United States, from the Supreme Court's Plessy v. Ferguson decision legalizing segregation in 1896 to the court's Brown v. Board of Education decision overthrowing it in 1954. Examines African-American history, culture, and resistance to segregation in this period.
View course details in MyPlan: T HIST 221
T HIST 222 African-American History 1945-Present (5) I&S, DIV
Examines African-American history from 1945 to present. Focuses on African-American culture, racial identity, social consciousness, political thought, oppression and resistance, and the confluence of race, class, and gendering in shaping Black culture, politics, and society. Explores U.S. history through the lens of African Americans.
View course details in MyPlan: T HIST 222
T HIST 226 American Architecture (5) VLPA
Examines the architecture of the United States from early Native American structures to late twentieth-century buildings. Focuses on issues concerning style, technology, regionalism, functions, and reform to address the diverse forces that have shaped and continue to shape American architecture.
View course details in MyPlan: T HIST 226
T HIST 231 The Ancient Mediterranean World (5) I&S
Covers political, economic, social, cultural, and intellectual history of the Mediterranean geographic sphere from prehistory to the fall of the Roman Empire and the rise of the Byzantine Empire.
View course details in MyPlan: T HIST 231
T HIST 251 The Global Twentieth Century (5) VLPA/I&S
Surveys the interactive political, economic, cultural, and social developments that shaped the 20th-century world to the present.
View course details in MyPlan: T HIST 251
T HIST 260 Empires and Imperialism in World History (5) I&S
Examines world history of the Roman, Chinese, Mongol, Ottoman, and Modern European empires and imperialism from ancient to modern times. Themes include empire as historical pattern related to political, economics, and cultural spheres of influence and exchange.
View course details in MyPlan: T HIST 260
T HIST 270 Premodern East Asia (5) I&S
Examines premodern China, Japan, Korea and Vietnam from their earliest origins to the mid-eighteenth century. Considers social, cultural, political, economic and intellectual developments within a historical framework.
View course details in MyPlan: T HIST 270
T HIST 271 Modern East Asia (5) I&S
Examines Modern East Asia, focusing on China, Japan, Korea and Vietnam from the mid-eighteenth century to the present. Considers social, cultural, political, economic and intellectual developments within a historical framework.
View course details in MyPlan: T HIST 271
T HIST 280 German Cultural History (5) VLPA
Examines German cultural and social history from the Middle Ages to the post-unification era of the 21st century. Traces the broad development of German civilization through popular culture, literature, art, theater, film, music, and modern media.
View course details in MyPlan: T HIST 280
T HIST 315 Industrialization and Reform (5) I&S
Examines the development of industrial capitalism and its effects on government, social institutions, workers and the environment, and on efforts to bring about reform. Provides a historical context for considering current debates about free markets versus planned or regulated economies.
View course details in MyPlan: T HIST 315
T HIST 320 Asian American History (5) I&S
Examines the histories, cultures, and literatures of Chinese, Japanese, Filipinos, Koreans, East Indians, and Southeast Asians in America from 1850 to 2009. Focuses on struggles of individual groups confronting widespread hostility and poverty. Explores how they established viable communities that continue to flourish to the third, fourth, and fifth generations.
View course details in MyPlan: T HIST 320
T HIST 322 American Labor Since the Civil War (5) I&S
Provides a history of workers and labor institutions from the era of industrialization to the post-industrial era, focusing on labor-management conflict, the rise and fall of unions, and on the role of government, the media, and other forces in determining events. Concludes with an assessment of labor today.
View course details in MyPlan: T HIST 322
T HIST 333 Early American Music, Art, Literature, and Theater (5) VLPA
Examines the cultural life of Americans from Colonial times to the eve of the Civil War. Includes topics such as Anglo/Celtic and Afro folk and church music, landscape and genre painting, regional and frontier literature, newspaper humor, popular culture, circus, Chautauqua, and minstrel shows.
View course details in MyPlan: T HIST 333
T HIST 336 Black, Labor, and Protest Music in Historical Perspective (5) VLPA/I&S
Presents distinctive musical traditions of African-American, labor and protest movements. Uses folk and protest music as a way to access and understand submerged elements of the American experience that are often ignored or lost to history. Reviews folk traditions embodied in American popular culture.
View course details in MyPlan: T HIST 336
T HIST 340 History of United States-American Indian Relations (5) I&S
Examines the interrelations between Native Americans and European immigrants since 1500. Explores conflicts and problems in Indian-White relations in a historical context. Includes an analysis of Indian policy and major legislation, with a special focus given to the consequences generated for contemporary Indian education and religion.
View course details in MyPlan: T HIST 340
T HIST 341 African-American History (5) I&S
Considers some of the major themes and periods in African-American history, as well as the history and present-day manifestations of racial oppression and stereotyping in American life. Includes history texts, classics of African-American literature, films and music, and intensive classroom discussion.
View course details in MyPlan: T HIST 341
T HIST 343 Vietnam and the 1960s (5) I&S
Examines the dissent and radicalism of the 1960s stemming from the Vietnam War, as well as civil rights and other causes. Explores various political questions pertinent to the 1960s through readings, films, music, and intensive discussion.
View course details in MyPlan: T HIST 343
T HIST 349 Minorities and Higher Education in American History (5) I&S
View course details in MyPlan: T HIST 349
T HIST 350 Modern Germany Since 1848 (5) I&S
Explores the history and the modern German nation state from the nineteenth century to the present; the rise of nationalism and the 1848 Revolution; the Bismark era, Imperial Germany, World War I, the Weimar Republic, the Nazi Regime, World War II, divided Germany, the post-war era, reunification, and Germany today.
View course details in MyPlan: T HIST 350
T HIST 356 History of Christianity (5) I&S
Examines Christian religion, including doctrine, practice, and church organization, from the time of Jesus Christ to the present, examining the religion's influence on culture, politics, and society.
View course details in MyPlan: T HIST 356
T HIST 363 Making of Russia (5) I&S
Considers historical, social, and cultural forces creating the Russian Empire. Examines Russia's Kievan past, Mongol era, rise of Moscow, the country's transformation under Peter the Great and his heirs, and social and political movements that resulted in the Tsarist system's collapse. Films, music, and slides supplement lectures and discussions.
View course details in MyPlan: T HIST 363
T HIST 364 Modern Russia (5) I&S
Explores Russia from Nicholas II through the Soviet era to contemporary Russia.
View course details in MyPlan: T HIST 364
T HIST 365 Europe in the Twentieth Century (5) I&S
Examines major political, social, and cultural developments in twentieth century Europe. Explores the two world wars, fascism and communism as alternatives to parliamentary democracy, the Cold War, and the post-war integration of Europe, with the support of primary sources including cultural artifacts.
View course details in MyPlan: T HIST 365
T HIST 372 Comparative Perspectives on East Asian and Latin American Development (5) I&S
Focuses on two important regions of the world, broadly comparing historical, cultural, and social experiences and relating these differences in experiences in specific Pacific Rim and Latin American countries. Examines how internal dynamics of these regions has shaped their standing in the world economy despite external political and economic constraints.
View course details in MyPlan: T HIST 372
T HIST 375 British Empire (5) I&S
Examines origins, expansion, and decline of British imperialism at home and abroad. Analyzes culture, society, economics, and politics of British imperialism using scholarly, popular, and primary sources from imperialists, anti-imperialists, colonists, and the colonized. Prerequisite: any 100- or 200-level T HIST course.
View course details in MyPlan: T HIST 375
T HIST 377 Art of the Americas (5) VLPA
The art of the United States, Mexico, and Canada is united by common historical events. Explores the painting, sculpture, and architecture of these three countries in the context of indigenous cultures, conquest and colonization, revolution, independence, and the search for national identity.
View course details in MyPlan: T HIST 377
T HIST 379 Modern Architecture (5) VLPA
Examines twentieth-century architecture and its origins. Focuses on issues concerning style, technology, urbanism, regionalism, function, and reform to address the diverse forces that have shaped modern architecture.
View course details in MyPlan: T HIST 379
T HIST 380 History Methods Research and Writing Seminar (5)
Covers developing a thesis, designing an outline, doing preliminary research, and preparing a history senior paper proposal with annotated bibliography and literature review. Includes required field trips to archival repositories.
View course details in MyPlan: T HIST 380
T HIST 385 Russian Civilization (5) VLPA/I&S
Examines aspects of Russian culture from the perspective of individual Russian cultural figures. Includes: Andrei Rublev and Russian Orthodoxy; the Age of Pushkin; Turgenev and the Populist Tradition; Chaikovsky and the Development of a Russian National Music; the Cinema of Eisenstein; and Socialist Realism from Gorky to Rybakov.
View course details in MyPlan: T HIST 385
T HIST 410 Early American Politics, Constitution, and Law (5, max. 10) I&S
Explores American political history from a variety of perspectives. Topics vary, including the American Revolution, Constitution and Bill of Rights, political party systems, Jacksonian democracy, nationalism and sectionalism, the Civil War and American laws and lawyers.
View course details in MyPlan: T HIST 410
T HIST 411 History of Religion in America (5) I&S
Examines the significance of religion in American society from European colonization to the twentieth century. Topics include Puritanism, revivalism, women, slavery, ethnicity and immigration, and pluralism.
View course details in MyPlan: T HIST 411
T HIST 413 Civil Rights, Civil Liberties (5, max. 10) I&S
Examines the historic personal and community rights, or lack thereof, embodied in the Constitution and Bill of Rights. Focuses on the history of efforts to preserve, extend or undermine these rights and on the status of these rights today. May be repeated for credit with instructor's approval.
View course details in MyPlan: T HIST 413
T HIST 416 Life and Thought: Martin Luther King, Malcolm X, and Angela Davis (5) I&S, DIV
Explores the experiences and thinking of three well-known leaders of African-American protest in the 1960s. Interprets black radicalism in that era and the relationship of these three analysts and activists to their times and to the present.
View course details in MyPlan: T HIST 416
T HIST 417 United States History 1945-Present (5) I&S, DIV
Examines U. S. history from 1945 to present. Examines the social, political, and economic history of the nation. Focuses on the role of culture, social consciousness, political thought, and the confluence of race, class, and gender in shaping U.S. history. Focuses on new developments in American life.
View course details in MyPlan: T HIST 417
T HIST 420 African-American Religious History (5) I&S, DIV
Examines African-American religious practices from slavery to present. Focuses on the role of religion in African-American culture, racial identify, social consciousness, political thought, oppression and resistance, and the confluence of race, class, and gender in shaping Christianity, Islam, and traditional forms of African worship.
View course details in MyPlan: T HIST 420
T HIST 430 Introduction to Public History (5) VLPA/I&S
Introduces students to the major issues and questions addressed by historians who work in the public sphere. Includes the interpretation of history, the role of history in popular culture, issues and aims in exhibiting history, the politics of public history, and historic preservation. Prerequisite: any T HIST course.
View course details in MyPlan: T HIST 430
T HIST 437 Doing Community History (5, max. 10) I&S
Involves the student in researching the history of the community, with particular focus on ethnic diversity. Includes primary research in libraries; interviewing residents; transcribing/editing oral memoirs; and writing history. Covers research skills, as well as sensitivity to community values and concerns. May be repeated with instructor's permission.
View course details in MyPlan: T HIST 437
T HIST 440 Black Labor in America (5) I&S, DIV
Provides an overview and a detailed consideration of the contributions of the black working class to the making of America. Examines historic racial-economic barriers which have held back development of African-American communities, and the continuing causes and possible solutions to the economic crisis affecting black working people today.
View course details in MyPlan: T HIST 440
T HIST 441 Black Freedom Movement in Perspective (5) I&S, DIV
Explores the historical roots and present-day manifestations of movements against racial oppression and for empowerment in the African-American community, focusing heavily on the period since the 1950s. Includes films, music, and popular as well as academic literature.
View course details in MyPlan: T HIST 441
T HIST 442 History of African American Education (5) I&S
Explores the historical roots and present-day manifestations of movements against racial oppression and for empowerment in the African-American community, focusing heavily on the period since the 1950s. Sources include films, music, and popular as well as academic literature.
View course details in MyPlan: T HIST 442
T HIST 444 The Pacific Northwest (5) I&S
Examines the history and society of the Pacific Northwest - that region encompassing modern Washington, Oregon, Idaho, western Montana, British Columbia, and Alaska. Includes topics such as native peoples, exploration and settlement, natural resources, economic development, government, folk culture, ethnicity, and modern problems.
View course details in MyPlan: T HIST 444
T HIST 445 History of Tacoma (5) I&S
Surveys the history and fabric of Washington state's second largest urban center. Topics include early settlements, Tacoma as the Pacific terminus of the Northern Pacific Railroad, commercial and social currents, ethnic and political struggle as recurring forces, and the development of regional institutions, local governments, and locally based corporations. Emphasizes architecture, urban planning and growth, and the built environment of Tacoma.
View course details in MyPlan: T HIST 445
T HIST 451 Renaissance Europe (5) I&S
Development of Renaissance humanism and its influence on culture, politics, and society in fourteenth-, fifteenth-, and sixteenth-century Europe and beyond.
View course details in MyPlan: T HIST 451
T HIST 452 Art, Culture, and History of the Eternal City (12) VLPA/I&S
Uses Rome as a laboratory to understand the role of art, history, and urbanism in the development of Western culture. Addresses the many facets of the cultural development of Rome and Italy, including geography, history, urban design, art, and architecture. Research-based and includes extensive fieldwork.
View course details in MyPlan: T HIST 452
T HIST 456 North American Regions I&S (5, max. 10) I&S
Examines the various regions of North America in comparative fashion. Topics may include the characteristics of the New England, Southern, frontier, Mississippi Valley, Canadian, Pacific Northwestern, and Southwestern regions of North America.
View course details in MyPlan: T HIST 456
T HIST 457 Anti-Semitism and the Holocaust (5) I&S
Historical, cultural, psychological, philosophical, and artistic approaches to understanding the Holocaust, including an examination of the role of anti-Semitism, Nazism, eugenics, bureaucracy, technology, attitudes and participation of "ordinary Germans," and the role of army and police units in its formation and execution. Explores implications of the Holocaust for contemporary life.
View course details in MyPlan: T HIST 457
T HIST 462 History of Vietnam (5) I&S
Examines Vietnamese history, culture, and society from the earliest days through the 1980s.
View course details in MyPlan: T HIST 462
T HIST 463 Premodern Japan (5) I&S
Explores how, from its prehistory to the 17th century, Japan has blended native traditions with continental Chinese influences to create its own civilization. Examines the political, economic, social, and intellectual factors that have shaped Japan in the premodern age. Provides a background to understanding the development of modern Japan.
View course details in MyPlan: T HIST 463
T HIST 464 Modern China (5) I&S
Traces the 19th and 20th century Chinese experience through China's struggles to modernize, its revolutionary experience, and the establishment and continuation of communist rule. Examines China's transformation from imperial rule to "People's Republic" by exploring political and economic change, and social, cultural, and intellectual change in an historical framework.
View course details in MyPlan: T HIST 464
T HIST 465 Modern Japan (5) I&S
Traces the transformation of Japan from a feudal country under Tokugawa military rule in the 19th century to an economic super-power in the 20th century. In addition to historical and political issues, addresses social and cultural topics, as will the clash of traditional Japan with the modern, industrialized West.
View course details in MyPlan: T HIST 465
T HIST 466 Modern Korea (5) I&S
Traces Korea's transition from traditional Asian state to modern nation emerging on the world economic scene. Explores how, because of its geographic location, Korea has suffered chaotic change in the modern period. Examines Korean society, culture, and politics, looking at Korea's period as a Japanese colony, the division of Korea, the Korean war, and recent developments.
View course details in MyPlan: T HIST 466
T HIST 467 Siberia and the Russian Far East (5) I&S
Examines the geography and natural resources, peoples, history, literature, culture, and economic development of Siberia and the Russian Far East from their beginnings to the present day.
View course details in MyPlan: T HIST 467
T HIST 470 The Material World: Art and Artifacts (5/7) VLPA
Examines material culture created and used by humans to cope with the physical world. Employs interdisciplinary methods drawing from art history, historical archaeology, anthropology, and museum studies. Uses hands-on study of everyday objects as a means to understand the world around us. Prerequisite: any T HIST course.
View course details in MyPlan: T HIST 470
T HIST 474 Imperial China (5) I&S
Surveys the social, political, economic, and intellectual history of Imperial China from the earliest times to the 17th century. Provides a background to understanding the development of Asia in general and modern China in particular.
View course details in MyPlan: T HIST 474
T HIST 475 Twentieth-Century Britain (5) I&S
Examines twentieth century British history, interpreting Britain's global role in the nineteenth century, its decline in the twentieth, and its re-emergence as a Western leader in the twenty-first century . Covers history from the Boer Wars to the 7/7 London bombings. Focuses on Britain in two world wars, the decline of British imperialism, and the effects of both in a globalized world.
View course details in MyPlan: T HIST 475
T HIST 477 Reformation and Counter-Reformation Europe (5) VLPA
Explores the Reformation and Counter Reformation and their impact on institutions, governments, and individuals from the 16th through the 17th centuries. Examines politics, religion, culture, and intellectual thought in a socioeconomic context. Considers changing emphases, such as Papal Rome, the European courts, and the Dutch Republic.
View course details in MyPlan: T HIST 477
T HIST 478 Europe in the Nineteenth Century (5) VLPA
Examine major political, social, and cultural developments in nineteenth century Europe, such as the Industrial Revolution, class struggle, nationalism, political freedom, and military conflicts. Emphasizes the analysis of social, economic, and political conditions as key influences on cultural production an its expression of the experience of modernity.
View course details in MyPlan: T HIST 478
T HIST 479 Modern European Culture (5) VLPA
Surveys the history of modern European culture from 1870 through 1945. Explores the intersection between the arts, popular culture, intellectual thought, and politics with a focus on individual representatives of the avant-garde.
View course details in MyPlan: T HIST 479
T HIST 480 Eastern Europe in Transition, 1940-2000 (5)
Examines the peoples and nations of Eastern Europe in times of fundamental change. Includes the impact of the Second World War, the imposition of Stalinism, attempts at liberalization in Hungary and Czechoslovakia, transformation associated with the Gorbachev era, and the region's economic, social, and political future.
View course details in MyPlan: T HIST 480
T HIST 484 The Pacific War (5) I&S
Traces the Pacific War, examining the emergence of modern Japan, the sources of conflict in Asia and between Japan and the U.S., the battles that comprised the war, the home fronts of the involved nations and the war's end, and its impact on Asia and the world.
View course details in MyPlan: T HIST 484
T HIST 486 Contemporary Chinese Culture and Society (5) I&S
Examines cultural life in China since the founding of the People's Republic of China in 1949. Includes political rituals (e.g., struggle sessions); socialist policies (e.g., household registrations, work units); post-Mao social classes and consumerism; and family relations and cultural practices such as gift-giving and relationship building.
View course details in MyPlan: T HIST 486
T HIST 487 Technology in the Modern World (5) I&S
Examines social, cultural, and historical studies of the role of technology in the modern world. Themes include the unintended consequences of new technologies; the relationship between technology and the environment; production and consumption; and technology's role in forming divisions along lines of race, class, and gender.
View course details in MyPlan: T HIST 487
T HIST 488 History of Urbanization and the Environment (5) I&S
Addresses the environmental impact of ancient, medieval, and modern cities. Includes the evolution of urban infrastructure and relations between city and countryside.
View course details in MyPlan: T HIST 488
T HIST 490 Medieval Technology (5) I&S
Examines the nuts and bolts of medieval technology and urban life while exploring larger themes of the gendering of labor, the rebirth of cities, the uneasy relationship to Islamic civilization, and the destruction of the natural world.
View course details in MyPlan: T HIST 490
T HIST 491 Advanced Topics in the Ancient and Medieval Mediterranean World (5, max. 10) I&S
Explores critically select topics in ancient and medieval Mediterranean studies with an emphasis on new and emerging perspectives and scholarship if the field.
View course details in MyPlan: T HIST 491
T HIST 495 The Metropolis (5, max. 10) I&S
Examines the problems and opportunities associated with the development of the metropolis. Focuses on the 20th century, and the individual city selected changes, depending on quarter. Begins with an examination of such general issues associated with large cities as economic base, transport, social conditions, culture, and government, moves on to consider in detail one city.
View course details in MyPlan: T HIST 495
T HIST 497 Senior Thesis (5)
Includes a significant independent research project planned and carried out by the student under the direction of a faculty member on a significant scholarly topic selected by the student in consultation with faculty. Prerequisite: TIAS 380 and approval of thesis proposal.
View course details in MyPlan: T HIST 497
T HIST 498 History Capstone (5) I&S
Emphasizes analysis of methodological issues and developing students' research and writing skills in history. Includes a significant independent research project planned and carried out by the student to complete senior thesis and portfolio requirements, including the oral presentation. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in either T HIST 380 or TIAS 380.
View course details in MyPlan: T HIST 498
TIAS 109 Elementary Intensive German Study Abroad (6)
Provides students with the basic skills necessary for speaking, listening, reading, and writing the German language at different levels of proficiency. Emphasizes contextual learning of the German language in relation to its culture, history, and philosophy in the context of a study abroad program in Frankfurt, Germany. Credit/no-credit only.
View course details in MyPlan: TIAS 109
TIAS 209 Intermediate Intensive German Study Abroad (6) VLPA
Provides students with the basic skills necessary for speaking, listening, reading, and writing the German language at different levels of proficiency. Emphasizes contextual learning of the German language in relation to its culture, history, and philosophy in the context of a study abroad program in Frankfurt, Germany. Credit/no-credit only.
View course details in MyPlan: TIAS 209
TIAS 300 The Making of America (5) I&S
Interdisciplinary study of diverse and changing American cultures. Topics may include materialism, art, and spiritual life; freedom and oppression; individualism and community; ethnicity, race, class and gender; social movements and social change; environmental ethics.
View course details in MyPlan: TIAS 300
TIAS 305 Seminar in Interdisciplinary Arts and Sciences (2, max. 10)
Provides experience in extracurricular intellectual discourse and exposure to current research in the humanities, social sciences, and sciences that distinguish the IAS Program. Credit/no-credit only.
View course details in MyPlan: TIAS 305
TIAS 309 Advanced Intensive German Study Abroad (6) VLPA
Provides students with the basic skills necessary for speaking, listening, reading, and writing the German language at different levels of proficiency. Emphasizes contextual learning of the German language in relation to its culture, history, and philosophy in the context of a study abroad program in Frankfurt, Germany. Credit/no-credit only.
View course details in MyPlan: TIAS 309
TIAS 328 The American Environment: Literature, Culture, and Social Policy (5) I&S
Explores American environmental values as revealed in a wide variety of literary and historical texts. Considers how culture influences environmental policy and how environmental policy reveals fundamental qualities of American culture. Includes readings from poetry to environmental impact statements, and from nature essays to governmental land use plans.
View course details in MyPlan: TIAS 328
TIAS 330 German Culture, History, and Philosophy: Frankfurt am Main (6) VLPA/I&S
Provides theoretical and practical introduction to German Studies by exploring issues of German culture, history, and philosophy in the context of a study abroad program in Frankfurt, Germany. Considers how this city is connected to European and global trends. Relates this international context to student's personal, academic, and professional experiences. Prerequisite: one 300-level T HIST, T PHIL, or GERMAN course. Credit/no-credit only.
View course details in MyPlan: TIAS 330
TIAS 396 Internships and Career Development (2)
Explores the vital link between university learning and the working world through self-assessment, presentations by business people and non-profit professionals, and through an examination of what it means to be an effective professional. Students learn about the vital role an internship plays in a career pathway.
View course details in MyPlan: TIAS 396
TIAS 443 Ethnicity and the Urban Landscape (5) I&S
Focuses on the intersection of ethnicity, architecture, and urbanism in the United States. Explores the concept of ethnic identity and the creation of a sense of place in urban environments. Examines local neighborhoods as a starting point for students' own investigations of ethnicity and the urban landscape.
View course details in MyPlan: TIAS 443
TIAS 480 Society and Culture in China Study Abroad (5/10) I&S
Examines the history, culture, language, and politics of China. Classes held at Beijing University, People's Republic of China. Corequisite: either TCHIN 101, TCHIN 102, TCHIN 103, TCHIN 201, TCHIN 202, or TCHIN 203.
View course details in MyPlan: TIAS 480
TIAS 485 Study Abroad in the Social Sciences (5-15, max. 24) I&S
Uses an interdisciplinary approach integrating a social science perspective and another discipline such as art, literature, history, architecture, philosophy, urban studies, etc. in this field study course. Taught on site and includes interaction with foreign scholars, local exhibits and sites, and local community experiences where appropriate.
View course details in MyPlan: TIAS 485
TIAS 486 Art and the Evolution of Consciousness (5-12) I&S/VLPA
Examines how the evolution of human consciousness is reflected in the arts in a field based study abroad program. Integrates history, the arts, philosophy, literature and the social sciences. Taught extensively in the cities and towns of Europe visited in that particular program year.
View course details in MyPlan: TIAS 486
TIAS 490 Special Topics (3-5, max. 15)
Advanced course offerings designed to respond to faculty and student interests and needs.
View course details in MyPlan: TIAS 490
TIAS 494 Honors Thesis/Project (1-5, max. 10)
Research and writing of a thesis supervised by a full-time IAS faculty member on a significant scholarly topic for students admitted to the IAS honors option.
View course details in MyPlan: TIAS 494
TIAS 496 Internship (1-5, max. 10)
Internship in the public or private sector, supervised by a faculty member. Permission based on approval of proposal submitted in advance of the internship. Credit/no-credit only.
View course details in MyPlan: TIAS 496
TIAS 497 Senior Thesis (5)
A significant independent research project planned and carried out by the student under the direction of a faculty member on a significant scholarly topic selected by the student in consultation with faculty.
View course details in MyPlan: TIAS 497
TIAS 498 Directed Readings (1-5, max. 15)
Faculty-supervised individual readings in areas of special need for students. Topics will vary.
View course details in MyPlan: TIAS 498
TIAS 499 Undergraduate Research (1-5, max. 15)
Individual advanced research projects carried out under supervision of individual faculty member.
View course details in MyPlan: TIAS 499
TIAS 501 Models and Critical Inquiry (5)
Role of models in conceptual and analytic processes, with special attention to relative strengths and weaknesses of linear and holistic models. Examines the application of these models and familiarizes students with their selective and combined use across a range of problem areas.
View course details in MyPlan: TIAS 501
TIAS 502 Culture and Public Problems (5)
Analysis of how public problems are constructed and preferred solutions defined. Examination of how institutional, professional and political actors make claims about the nature of a problem, its causes and appropriate domains of action - e.g., medical or legal, private or public.
View course details in MyPlan: TIAS 502
TIAS 503 Evidence and Action (5)
Examines the theoretical formulations of public action. Analyzes how different ways of understanding and validating knowledge define the perception of alternative courses of action. Explores the practical consequences of theoretical choices.
View course details in MyPlan: TIAS 503
TIAS 504 Values and Action (5)
Examines moral grounding of human action in organizational settings. Analyzes how different disciplines understand the framing and weighing of values in public decision-making. Inquiries into the common strategies employed in practice to deal with the inevitable value dimension of action and policy.
View course details in MyPlan: TIAS 504
TIAS 505 IAS M.A. Capstone (5)
Provides an opportunity to explore the themes of the four core courses to the specific substance of the student's master's thesis or project. Prerequisite: TIAS 501; TIAS 502; TIAS 503; TIAS 504.
View course details in MyPlan: TIAS 505
TIAS 513 Graduate Research and Writing (5)
Introduces skills to understand published research and to formulate research questions. Includes advanced work in discipline-specific rhetorical strategies and analysis of complex readings.
View course details in MyPlan: TIAS 513
TIAS 515 Themes in the Interpretation of Culture (5)
Analyzes selected themes in the study of modern culture, such as health and medicine, sexuality, consumption, television, advertising, film, literature, art, music, architecture, and social, or cultural history.
View course details in MyPlan: TIAS 515
TIAS 520 Critical Analyses of Foundational Texts (5)
Focuses on critical reading of selected great books. Works chosen vary, depending on the expertise of the instructor. Open to undergraduates with permission.
View course details in MyPlan: TIAS 520
TIAS 530 German Culture, History, and Philosophy: Frankfurt am Main (6)
Provides theoretical and practical introduction to German Studies by exploring issues of German culture, history, and philosophy in the context of a study abroad program in Frankfurt, Germany. Considers how this city is connected to European and global trends. Relates this international context to student's personal, academic, and professional experiences. Prerequisite: one 300-level T HIST, T PHIL, or GERMAN course. Credit/no-credit only.
View course details in MyPlan: TIAS 530
TIAS 548 Cultural Administration and Policy (5)
Analyzes the social, cultural, economic and creative foundations of cultural management and policy. Emphasizes critical and creative thinking in evaluating the role and function of non-profit arts institutions within the complex fabric of contemporary society. Municipal, state, and federal spheres of influence on public policy are closely examined.
View course details in MyPlan: TIAS 548
TIAS 590 Independent Study (1-10, max. 20)
Faculty-supervised independent study, readings and special projects for graduate students. Topics vary. Prerequisite: permission of instructor.
View course details in MyPlan: TIAS 590
TIAS 596 Internship (1-10, max. 10)
Faculty-supervised internships for graduate students. Internships and projects vary. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Credit/no-credit only.
View course details in MyPlan: TIAS 596
TIAS 598 Directed Readings (1-10, max. 20)
Faculty-supervised readings for graduate students. Prerequisite: permission of instructor.
View course details in MyPlan: TIAS 598
TIAS 599 Directed Research (1-10, max. 20)
Faculty-supervised research for graduate students. Prerequisite: permission of instructor.
View course details in MyPlan: TIAS 599
TIAS 605 Degree Project (1-10, max. 30)
By permission of instructor. Credit/no-credit only.
View course details in MyPlan: TIAS 605
TIAS 700 Thesis ([1-10]-)
Faculty-supervised thesis for graduate students. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Credit/no-credit only.
View course details in MyPlan: TIAS 700
T LAW 150 Introduction the American Legal System (5) I&S
Provides an introduction to the American legal system, and examines how judicial processes relate to American politics. Describes the organization of state and federal courts; judicial selection and elections; and the functioning of criminal, civil, and appellate courts, including the U.S. Supreme Court.
View course details in MyPlan: T LAW 150
T LAW 215 Introduction to International Organizations (5) I&S
Explores historical, theoretical, and empirical aspects of the United Nations, its specialized agencies, and other international organizations, both governmental and nongovernmental.
View course details in MyPlan: T LAW 215
T LAW 320 American Constitutional Law: Institutional Powers and Constraints (5) I&S
Explores the role of the Supreme Court in interpreting the United States Constitution. Covers the role of the federal government in relationship with the states, judicial review, the separation of powers, and economic due process.
View course details in MyPlan: T LAW 320
T LAW 339 Washington Environmental Law (5)
Examines Washington State environmental statutes through reading, writing, and discussion of regulations and case studies. Takes a case law approach to evaluate laws in biological conservation, energy, land use, mineral rights, air and water quality, and other complex environmental arenas, and how Washington courts have interpreted such laws.
View course details in MyPlan: T LAW 339
T LAW 348 Gender and Law (5) I&S, DIV
Studies the way gender norms influence legal processes and the role of the law in gendered social change. Explores some of the practical strategies men and women may employ in order to negotiate and use gendered constraints to their advantage.
View course details in MyPlan: T LAW 348
T LAW 361 American Constitutional Law: Rights and Liberties (5) I&S
Explores the role of the United States Supreme Court in interpreting the Bill of Rights. Covers topics such as freedom of speech and religion, privacy, equal protection, and criminal due process.
View course details in MyPlan: T LAW 361
T LAW 363 Law in Society (5) I&S
Inquiry into how law matters in social practice. Examines general theories of law, the workings of legal institutions, and the character of legally constituted practices and relationships in diverse terrains of social life.
View course details in MyPlan: T LAW 363
T LAW 367 Comparative Law and Courts (5) I&S
Introduces comparative judicial politics, focusing on the relationship between law and politics in cross-national perspective, as well as the function of supranational and international legal entities in the international system.
View course details in MyPlan: T LAW 367
T LAW 422 International Humanitarian Law (5) I&S
Investigates International Humanitarian Law (sometimes called the Law of Armed Conflict), the field concerned with rules developed by civilized nations to protect the victims of armed conflict, including the Geneva Conventions. Case studies include the conflict between Israel and the Palestinians, as well as developments in Afghanistan and Iraq.
View course details in MyPlan: T LAW 422
T LAW 423 International Law (5) I&S
Origin and present status of efforts to make rules of conduct for sovereign states; simulation of a treaty-drafting conference, with students playing roles of legal advisers to foreign governments.
View course details in MyPlan: T LAW 423
T LAW 424 The Politics and Law of International Human Rights (5) I&S
Studies the international human rights movement in its legal and political context. Focus on institutions which influence, enable, and constrain the international promotion of human rights.
View course details in MyPlan: T LAW 424
T LAW 438 Environmental Law (5) I&S
Examines the historical and policy framework of major environmental laws and regulations. Takes a case law approach to evaluate laws in biological conservation, energy, land use, mineral rights, air and water quality, and other complex environmental arenas, and how courts (primarily in the United States) have interpreted such laws.
View course details in MyPlan: T LAW 438
T LAW 452 Minorities and the Law (5) I&S, DIV
Examines the 20th century evolution of equal protection and due process. Particular focus placed upon the case law, its societal context, and its impact upon persons of color.
View course details in MyPlan: T LAW 452
T LAW 465 Law and Public Policy in the United States (5) I&S
Relationship between law and public policy, with particular attention to problems of social, economic, and political change. Considers legal and constitutional processes as they relate to such problems of public policy as race relations, the environment, and the economy.
View course details in MyPlan: T LAW 465
T LAW 486 Field Work in Law and Policy (5) I&S
Applies work in policy and law. Student engage in fieldwork and research to examine a policy issue in the community. Working collaboratively with community members and lawmakers, students propose legislation, and publicly present recommendations to lawmakers. Prerequisite: either TPOL S 202 or TPOL S 382; T ECON 410.
View course details in MyPlan: T LAW 486
T LIT 200 Understanding Literature (5) VLPA
Develops essential tools for close and informed reading of fiction, drama, and poetry. Considers how a text generates aesthetic pleasure, how it achieves moral or social impact. Develops skills in literary analysis through reading literary texts, through discussion, and through critical writing.
View course details in MyPlan: T LIT 200
T LIT 210 Studies in American Literature (5) VLPA
Examines the aesthetic, social, and cultural expressions of American Literature through its major authors, modes, themes, and periods. Students will practice the analysis of literary discourse and the formation of critical arguments.
View course details in MyPlan: T LIT 210
T LIT 220 Literature and the Arts (5) VLPA
Examines the connections between literature and other art forms, such as film, painting, music, and performance. Emphasizes the methods of interpretation and critical theory in studying the relationships of artistic expression. Studies the work of major artists and writers, as well as examples at local galleries, museums, and performance spaces.
View course details in MyPlan: T LIT 220
T LIT 230 Multi-Ethnic American Literature (5) VLPA
Examines multicultural and multi-ethnic literature by American authors. Focuses on novels, short stories, essays, and poetry that examine the social construction of race in American society, the construction of American identity, and the intersections of race, class, and gender.
View course details in MyPlan: T LIT 230
T LIT 237 Introduction to Literature and Environment (5) VLPA
Examines the concepts of "nature", "environment", and "wilderness" across a range of literary texts produced by a variety of voices and considers how broader contexts-such as the historical, personal, or cultural-shape how writers represent nature and environment in their work.
View course details in MyPlan: T LIT 237
T LIT 240 Studies in English Literature (5) VLPA
Examines the aesthetic, social, and cultural expressions of English literature through its major authors, modes, themes, and periods. Students will practice the analysis of literary discourse and the formation of critical arguments.
View course details in MyPlan: T LIT 240
T LIT 251 Ancient Literature of Western Civilization (5) VLPA
Examines works of literature and philosophy of ancient Western Civilization as the foundation for subsequent Western writing and thought. May include Homer's Odyssey, Sophocles' Oedipus the King, Plato's Apology, and Virgil's Aeneid.
View course details in MyPlan: T LIT 251
T LIT 252 Medieval and Renaissance Literature of Western Civilization (5) VLPA
Critically examines works of literature and literary theology from the medieval and Renaissance eras in Europe. Explores works as "archetypes," i.e., the foundation for subsequent European writing and thought of all kinds. Includes Dante s Inferno, Shakespeare's Hamlet, and Milton's Paradise Lost.
View course details in MyPlan: T LIT 252
T LIT 253 Modern Literature of Western Civilization (5) VLPA
Examines literary works of Western civilization from the modern era, works important to subsequent Western writing and thought of all kinds. May include Swift's Gulliver's Travels, Goethe's Faust, Kafka's short stories, and Woolf's Mrs. Dalloway.
View course details in MyPlan: T LIT 253
T LIT 305 American Literary Movements, Genres, and Historical Periods (5, max. 10) VLPA
Studies movements (Transcendentalism, Modernism, the Harlem Renaissance, etc.); genres (poetry, fiction, drama, essay); historical periods (American Renaissance, the ' 20s, etc.); and investigates the literature of ethnic, political, and/or regional groups. May be repeated for credit with instructor's approval.
View course details in MyPlan: T LIT 305
T LIT 306 Studies in Selected American Writers (5) VLPA
Analysis of selected American writers, focusing on their depictions of success and failure, and their characteristic styles of affirmation and alienation. Are there typically American patterns that can be discerned? What makes a writer's vision compelling?
View course details in MyPlan: T LIT 306
T LIT 311 Themes in American Literature (5, max. 10) VLPA
Studies major themes addressed by writers in America. Includes topics such as: individualism, identity and community; sex, love and marriage; justice and injustice; industrialization, technology and the city; authenticity and egalitarianism; and race relations. May be repeated for credit with instructor's approval.
View course details in MyPlan: T LIT 311
T LIT 313 American Poetry (5) VLPA
An examination of different types of American poetry. Emphasizes writers from a variety of backgrounds. Poems approached from formal, thematic and historical perspectives.
View course details in MyPlan: T LIT 313
T LIT 320 African American Literature from Slavery to the Present (5) VLPA, DIV
Readings, films, lectures, and class discussions will focus on constructions of racial identity, social consciousness, race class, and gender relations as reflected in novels, short stories, essays, and poetry by African American authors.
View course details in MyPlan: T LIT 320
T LIT 324 African American Women's Literature (5) VLPA, DIV
Examines female slave narratives and novels from the Harlem Renaissance, Social Protest Movement, and the contemporary period. Examines how black women illustrate social constructions and intersections of race, gender, and class. Readings, lectures, and films will explore the political motivation and public response to black women's writing.
View course details in MyPlan: T LIT 324
T LIT 325 Medical and Ethical Issues in Literature and Culture (5) VLPA
Examines various medical and bioethical issues through the lens of literature. Explores the role of technology, illness and culture, and end-of-live issues. Offered: jointly with T HLTH 325.
View course details in MyPlan: T LIT 325
T LIT 331 Immigrant and Ethnic Literature (5) VLPA
Explores dynamics of cultures in contact and conflict and examines how literatures of different ethnic groups reflect this contrast. Emphasizes historical and cultural perspectives on immigrant and ethnic experience in the U.S. Analyzes literature depicting different aspects of the immigrant and ethnic experience within the larger context of America.
View course details in MyPlan: T LIT 331
T LIT 332 Asian American Literature (5) VLPA
Examines major works of Asian American literature and the "double burden" of Asian American writers in both creating art and representing a group. Compares this "burden" to those of writers of other ethnicities. Includes historic themes and represents voices of marginalized groups commenting on themselves and on mainstream society.
View course details in MyPlan: T LIT 332
T LIT 335 Middle Eastern American Literature (5) VLPA, DIV
Focuses on literature produced by Middle Eastern Americans, examine how these texts explore questions of identity through intersections of race, gender, and class, as well as religious, historical, and sociopolitical contexts, and taking into consideration both popular culture and the traditions to which this literature responds.
View course details in MyPlan: T LIT 335
T LIT 338 Writing in the Pacific Northwest (5) VLPA
Examines the way place or region provides a context for writing. Compares several kinds of writing from the Pacific Northwest (e.g., history, journalism, fiction, nature writing) and analyzes how writing is made more effective by awareness of audience, setting and occasion for writing.
View course details in MyPlan: T LIT 338
T LIT 343 Shakespeare (5, max. 10) VLPA
Examines selected works of English playwright William Shakespeare. Students read plays and engage in class discussion and textually supported interpretations in writing. Covers historical background of Shakespeare's England and play settings, as well as relevant theology, philosophy, and natural science.
View course details in MyPlan: T LIT 343
T LIT 344 Oregon Shakespeare Festival (2) VLPA
Studies the texts and attends the performances of plays by Shakespeare playwrights during a short excursion to the Oregon Shakespeare Festival. Emphasizes the production of a play as an interpretation of the text. Typically includes a backstage tour of 3 theaters and a private discussion with an actor.
View course details in MyPlan: T LIT 344
T LIT 371 The World Stage (5, max. 10) VLPA
An investigation of western and non-western forms of staged performance from a historical, social, political, and cultural perspective. Subjects include the classical stage, medieval mystery plays, Jesuit theater, Noh and Kabuki theater, the Peking opera, Yiddish theater, Agit-Prop, the cabaret, the operatic gesamtkunstwerk, Avant-Garde theater, and Performance Art.
View course details in MyPlan: T LIT 371
T LIT 380 Myth and Literary Sagas in Creative Expression (5) VLPA
Explores the creative depictions of mythological themes, legendary heroes, and literary sagas. Special attention given to myth, legend, and literature in traditional cultural expression and their dramatic transformation in cinema. Themes include 'the hero of many faces,' and 'love and tragedy.'
View course details in MyPlan: T LIT 380
T LIT 388 Cross Cultural Studies in Contemporary Women's Fiction (5) VLPA, DIV
Examines novels and short stories concerned with race, politics, feminism, and the representation of women. Issues addressed include minority discourse, autobiographical modes, myth, storytelling, definitions of womanhood, and cultural identification. Writers studied include Allison, Erdrich, Silko, Kingston, Tan, Morrison, and Cisneros.
View course details in MyPlan: T LIT 388
T LIT 390 Varieties of Literary Criticism (5) VLPA
Investigates different approaches to reading and analysis of literary texts. Draws readings from a range of theoretical and practical criticism. Considers how critical theory adds to the understanding and enjoyment of literature. Gives attention to the history of critical ideas.
View course details in MyPlan: T LIT 390
T LIT 406 Children's and Young Adult Literature (5) VLPA
Explores the variety and richness of contemporary children's and young adult literature. Discusses current trends and issues, and explores multi-ethnic literature and literature from other countries.
View course details in MyPlan: T LIT 406
T LIT 425 Literature of the Harlem Renaissance (5) VLPA, DIV
Examines the images, themes, and characterizations in literature written by African Americans during the Harlem Renaissance. Writers include Johnson, Hughes, Larsen, Harston, Cullen, Fauset, Thurmann, White and McKay.
View course details in MyPlan: T LIT 425
T LIT 431 Contemporary Native American Women's Literature (5) VLPA, DIV
Examines novels, short stories, and poetry by contemporary Native American women authors. Addresses racial and gender oppression, reservation life, acculturation, political and social emergence as well as the leadership role of Native American women. Writers studied include Erdrich, Silko, Hogan, Tapahonso, and Harjo.
View course details in MyPlan: T LIT 431
T LIT 432 American Indian Literature (5, max. 10) VLPA
Studies American Indian literature reflected in thematic and topical expressions. Examines content revolving around leading Native American writers, and/or non-Indian depictions of Native Americans, and/or American Indian biographical studies. May be repeated for credit with instructor's approval.
View course details in MyPlan: T LIT 432
T LIT 433 Native American Literature and Federal Indian Law (5) I&S/VLPA, DIV
Examines major Native American texts against the backdrop of federal Indian law. Native Americans have consistently been resisting and reacting to federal laws aimed at limiting their sovereign rights. Looks at how characters resist and undermine colonial forces in ways unique to Native American culture.
View course details in MyPlan: T LIT 433
T LIT 437 Topics in Literature and Environment (5) VLPA
Examines nature writing and environmental literature through the lens of a focused topic. Includes topics such as: Wilderness Tales, Nature and Industry, Women in Nature, Environmental Apocalypse, Nonhuman Animals in Literature, and Beyond Nature Writing. May be repeated for credit with instructor's approval.
View course details in MyPlan: T LIT 437
T LIT 438 American Folklore (5) VLPA
Examines types of American folklore and the techniques of the folklorist. Includes topics such as: American folk heroes, folklore vs. fakelore, Southern and New England archetypes, the rural mystique, sexism, violence and racism in folklore, printed folktales, and modern folk heroes.
View course details in MyPlan: T LIT 438
T LIT 439 Western American Literature (5) VLPA
Studies Western American writers and their contribution to understanding the Western landscape. Focuses on selected topical areas and/or cultural themes characteristic to the West.
View course details in MyPlan: T LIT 439
T LIT 453 Ancient Greek Tragedy (5) VLPA
Examines selected tragedies of Aeschylus, Sophocles, and Euripides.
View course details in MyPlan: T LIT 453
T LIT 455 Medieval Quests (5) VLPA
Examines important works of literature and literary theology from the medieval era, broadly construed. Special attention to the theme of the "quest." Texts include Augustine's Confessions, Beowulf, The Quest of the Holy Grail, Sir Gawain and the Green Knight, and Don Quixote.
View course details in MyPlan: T LIT 455
T LIT 458 Modern Novel (5) VLPA
Examines Cervantes' Don Quixote and twentieth-century works inspired by it. May include Don Quixote, Kafka's Castle, Borges' Labyrinths, and Nabokov's Pale Fire.
View course details in MyPlan: T LIT 458
T LIT 476 American Women's Literature: Nineteenth and Twentieth Century Texts (5) VLPA, DIV
Examines primarily novels and short stories by American women authors from the nineteenth and twentieth centuries. Explores women's work, women's education, women's activism, marriage, motherhood, and crimes committed against and by women. Addresses the construction of female identity and how American women authors revise American history and literature.
View course details in MyPlan: T LIT 476
T LIT 481 Postcolonial Fiction (5) VLPA
Examines selected works of fiction by postcolonial authors while building a foundation in postcolonial history.
View course details in MyPlan: T LIT 481
T LIT 485 Comparative Mythology (5) VLPA
Explores selected mythologies; specific studies may be topical, or thematic. Includes the exploration of mythography, critical examination of the form, context, and function of mythology, particularly in its expression of world view and attended values.
View course details in MyPlan: T LIT 485
T LIT 487 African Folklore and Literature (5) I&S
Explores oral and written traditions in Africa. Emphasizes how the aesthetics of storytelling and dialogue shape the production of narrative in contemporary African contexts. Explores anthropological, literary, and historical approaches in viewing the aesthetic qualities of African folklore and literature.
View course details in MyPlan: T LIT 487
TMATH 098 Intermediate Algebra (0)
Intermediate algebra equivalent to third semester of high school algebra. Extra tuition required. Prerequisite: either elementary algebra, a score of 70-120 on the ACC-AL placement test, or a score of 0-34 on the ACC-CL placement test.
View course details in MyPlan: TMATH 098
TMATH 107 Mathematics: A Practical Art (5) NW, QSR
Focuses on the important ideas of mathematics and mathematical methods of investigation with application to real life problems. Covers selected topics in arithmetic, geometry, probability and statistics. For students who have at least 1.5 years of high school algebra and do not plan to take additional mathematics. Prerequisite: either TMATH 098, score of 147-155 on MPT-GS placement test, or a score of 144 on the MPT-AS placement test.
View course details in MyPlan: TMATH 107
TMATH 110 Introductory Statistics with Applications (5) NW, QSR
Addresses introductory statistical concepts and analysis in modern society. Includes descriptive statistics, graphical displays of data, the normal distribution, data collection, probability, elements of statistical inference, hypothesis testing, and linear regression and correlation. Practical examples used to demonstrate statistical concepts. Prerequisite: either TMATH 098 or a minimum score of 35 on ACC-CL placement test.
View course details in MyPlan: TMATH 110
TMATH 115 Pre-calculus I: Functions (5) QSR
Introduces the concept of a function, its notation, and prepares student to work with piece-wise, exponential, logarithmic, polynomial, and rational functions. Emphasizes computational skills, graph reading, and problem solving. One of a two-part series. Maximum of 10 credits from TMATH 115, TMATH 116, and TMATH 120 may be counted. Prerequisite: either a minimum grade of 2.0 in TMATH 098 or a score of 35-79 on the ACC-CL placement test.
View course details in MyPlan: TMATH 115
TMATH 116 Pre-calculus II: Trigonometry (5) NW, QSR
Continues studying the concept of a function, its notation, and trigonometric and inverse trigonometric functions. Introduces parametrized curves, polar coordinates, and complex numbers. Emphasizes computational skills, graph reading, and problem solving techniques. Second of a two-part series. Maximum of 10 credits from TMATH 115, TMATH 116, and TMATH 120 may be counted. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in TMATH 115.
View course details in MyPlan: TMATH 116
TMATH 120 Precalculus (5) NW, QSR
Examines polynomial, rational, exponential, and trigonometric functions. Maximum of 10 credits from TMATH 115, TMATH 116, and TMATH 120 may be counted. Prerequisite: either minimum grade of 2.0 in TMATH 098 or score of 35-120 on the ACC-CL placement test; cannot be taken for credit if credit earned in TMATH 121; recommended: Recommended co-requisite: TMATH 158
View course details in MyPlan: TMATH 120
TMATH 124 Calculus with Analytic Geometry I (5) NW, QSR
First quarter in calculus of functions of a single variable. Emphasizes differential calculus. Emphasizes applications and problem solving using the tools of calculus. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in either TMATH 116 or TMATH 120, score of 68% on MPT-A placement test, score of 75% on MATHEC placement test, or score of 2 on AP test. Cannot be taken for credit if credit earned in TMATH 122; recommended: Recommended co-requisite: TMATH 159.
View course details in MyPlan: TMATH 124
TMATH 125 Calculus with Analytic Geometry II (5) NW
Second quarter in the calculus of functions of a single variable. Emphasizes integral calculus. Emphasizes applications and problem solving using the tools of calculus. Prerequisite: either 2.0 in TMATH 124, score 3 on AB advanced placement test, or score of 3 on BC advanced placement test.
View course details in MyPlan: TMATH 125
TMATH 126 Calculus with Analytic Geometry III (5) NW
Third quarter in calculus sequence. Sequences, series, Taylor expansions, and an introduction to multivariable differential calculus. Prerequisite: 2.0 in TMATH 125, score of 5 on AB advanced placement test, or score of 4 on BC advanced placement test.
View course details in MyPlan: TMATH 126
TMATH 158 Pre-Calculus Collaborative Learning Seminar (1, max. 2)
Enhances problem-solving skills for pre-calculus by having students work with a facilitator to strengthen their skills in critical thinking via group problem sessions in pre-calculus and its applications. Prerequisite: TMATH 120, which must be taken concurrently Credit/no-credit only.
View course details in MyPlan: TMATH 158
TMATH 159 Calculus Collaborative Learning Seminar (1, max. 3)
Enhances problem-solving skills for calculus by having students work with a facilitator to strengthen their skills in critical thinking via group problem sessions in calculus and its applications. Prerequisite: either TMATH 124, TMATH 125, or TMATH 126, which must be taken concurrently. Credit/no-credit only.
View course details in MyPlan: TMATH 159
TMATH 210 Intermediate Statistics with Applications (3/5) QSR
Investigates intermediate concepts of statistical inference and testing using statistical software for analysis. Analyzes datasets and examples from a variety of disciplines such as environmental and social science. Includes critical review of scholarly reports.
View course details in MyPlan: TMATH 210
TMATH 214 Analytical Thinking (5) QSR
Develops problem-solving skills, decision-making methods, and precise written formulation of ideas through elementary mathematics. Emphasizes logical thinking and precise formulation of statements rather than mathematical formulae and theorems. Analyzes real life problems and situations; examines optimal decisions/solutions. No specialized mathematical skills required.
View course details in MyPlan: TMATH 214
TMATH 221 Spatial and Geometric Reasoning (5) QSR
Develops geometric intuition, problem-solving skills, and the ability to communicate ideas and solutions with elementary mathematics precisely. Emphasizes spatial, geometric, and logical thinking along with the precise formulation of statements rather than mathematical formulae and theorems. No specialized mathematical skills required.
View course details in MyPlan: TMATH 221
TMATH 300 Foundations of Mathematical Reasoning (5) NW, QSR
Develops skills in making mathematical arguments and writing of proofs by studying elementary set theory; functions; logical statements and quantifiers; the principle of induction; cardinality; and properties of number systems - integers, rational, real, and complex. Investigates proofs in both discrete and continuous mathematics. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in either TMATH 125 or TCSS 321.
View course details in MyPlan: TMATH 300
TMATH 307 Introduction to Differential Equations (5) NW, QSR
Explores ordinary differential equations including first- and second-order equations, Laplace transform, and systems of first-order equations. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in either TMATH 125 or MATH 125.
View course details in MyPlan: TMATH 307
TMATH 308 Matrix Algebra with Applications (5) NW, QSR
Introduces linear algebra, including systems of linear equations; Gaussian elimination; matrices and matrix algebra; vectors; vector spaces; subspace of Euclidean space; linear independence; bases and dimension; orthogonality; eigenvectors; and eigenvalues. Applications include data fitting and the method of least squares. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in either TMATH 125 or TCSS 321.
View course details in MyPlan: TMATH 308
TMATH 310 Statistics for Environmental Applications (5) NW, QSR
Investigates concepts of statistical inference specific to the environmental sciences. Includes sampling design, t-tests, ANOVA, multiple comparisons, regression, transformations, principle component analysis, chi-squared tests, and non-parametric tests, using statistical software for analysis. Prerequisite: TMATH 110.
View course details in MyPlan: TMATH 310
TMATH 324 Multivariable Calculus (5) NW, QSR
Introduces concepts and computation techniques of multivariable calculus; including double and triple integrals; the chain rule; vector fields; parametric curves and surfaces; line integrals; surface integrals; Green's Theorem: Stoke's Theorem; and the Divergence Theorem. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in TMATH 126.
View course details in MyPlan: TMATH 324
TMATH 344 Fundamentals of Geometry (5) NW, QSR
Covers fundamentals of geometry. Presents an axiomatic treatment of geometry, including Euclidean and non-Euclidean geometry. Describes the role of Euclid's Fifth Postulate in development of non-Euclidean geometries. Develops student's ability to write rigorous proofs. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in either TMATH 126 or TMATH 300.
View course details in MyPlan: TMATH 344
TMATH 350 Mathematics Research Seminar (2) NW, QSR
Introduces students to diverse mathematical topics through invited speakers and selected readings. Develops mathematical ways of thinking, investigating, reading, and writing. Explores future employment and graduate school options and opportunities.
View course details in MyPlan: TMATH 350
TMATH 390 Probability and Statistics in Engineering and Science (5) NW, QSR
Investigates probability and statistics using exploratory data analysis and interactive computing. Study topics including conditional probability, independence, random variables, distribution functions, descriptive statistics, transformations, sampling errors, confidence intervals, least squares, and maximum likelihood. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in TMATH 126.
View course details in MyPlan: TMATH 390
TMATH 402 Introduction to Abstract Algebra I (5) NW
Focuses on group theory with a brief introduction to rings and fields. Emphasizes proofs. Topics include cosets; Lagrange's theorem; homomorphisms; normal subgroups; quotient groups; the isomorphism theorems; cyclic and symmetric groups; Cauchy's theorem; automorphisms; and elementary properties of rings and fields. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in TMATH 300.
View course details in MyPlan: TMATH 402
TMATH 403 Abstract Algebra II (5) NW, QSR
Continues studying the theory of rings and fields, including ideals; homomorphisms; quotient rings; integral domains and fields of fractions; polynomial rings; vector spaces; field extensions; geometric constructions via straight-edge and compass; the classification of finite fields; unique factorization domains; and Euclidean domains. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in TMATH 402.
View course details in MyPlan: TMATH 403
TMATH 408 Numerical Methods (2) NW, QSR
Covers basic numerical methods and techniques. Topics include: error analysis, Newton's method, interpolation, numerical integration, Runge-Kutta methods, iterative methods for solving linear systems, discrete least squares approximation.
View course details in MyPlan: TMATH 408
TMATH 412 Cryptography: Theory and Practice (5) QSR
Covers "classical" cryptosystems and their cryptoanalysis, Shannon's approach to cryptography including entropy and perfect secrecy, block ciphers and AES. Contains RSA cryptosystem, public key cryptography based on discrete logarithms, and signature schemes. Breaks simple ciphers using a computer. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in either TCSS 321, TMATH 125, or TMATH 402.
View course details in MyPlan: TMATH 412
TMATH 413 Coding Theory (5) QSR
Deals with electronic communication over noisy channels where some bits of information may get corrupted. Covers using codes in designing ciphers secure in the era of quantum computers. Topics include error-detection/correction, various types of codes, and McEliece cipher. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in either TMATH 308 or TCSS 321.
View course details in MyPlan: TMATH 413
TMATH 420 History of Mathematics (5) I&S, QSR
Surveys the history and development of mathematics from its earliest beginnings into the early twentieth century. Focuses on the effect math discovery and literacy has had on human, social, and cultural behaviors. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in either TMATH 126, TMATH 300, TMATH 307, or TMATH 308.
View course details in MyPlan: TMATH 420
TMATH 424 Introduction to Real Analysis I (5) NW, QSR
Introduces set theory; the construction of the real numbers; infima and suprema; metric spaces and Euclidean distance; topology of the reals numbers; formal treatment of limits; Cauchy sequences; continuity; uniform convergence; and the derivative. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in TMATH 300.
View course details in MyPlan: TMATH 424
TMATH 425 Introduction to Real Analysis II (5) QSR
Provides rigorous treatment of the derivative of a function of one variable; Contraction Mapping Theorem; Riemann integral, Fundamental Theorem of Calculus, Cauchy existence criterion; sequences of functions, pointwise and uniform convergence; power series; differentiation of functions on Euclidean spaces, total derivative; and Implicit Function Theorem. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in TMATH 424.
View course details in MyPlan: TMATH 425
TMATH 450 Mathematics Capstone (2) NW, QSR
Synthesizes mathematics studies and presentations skills in an individual or group project researching new topics or continuing beyond coursework. Includes research presentations of capstone experiences. Prerequisite: TMATH 350.
View course details in MyPlan: TMATH 450
TMATH 490 Special Topics in Quantitative Studies (1-7, max. 21) NW, QSR
Advanced course offerings in quantitative studies designed to respond to faculty and student interests and needs.
View course details in MyPlan: TMATH 490
TMATH 496 Mathematics Internship (1-5, max. 10)
Provides opportunity for a mathematical internship in the public or private sector with the supervision of a faculty member in mathematics or a related discipline. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in each of TMATH 300, TMATH 307, TMATH 308, and TMATH 324. Credit/no-credit only.
View course details in MyPlan: TMATH 496
TNPRFT 231 Introduction to Nonprofit Sector (5) I&S
Examines issues specific to the nonprofit sector, including community organizations, service learning, nonprofit management, and community development. Cannot be taken for credit if credit earned in TNPRFT 431.
View course details in MyPlan: TNPRFT 231
TNPRFT 432 Organizational Development (5) I&S
Explores theory and research regarding developmental stages in the life of organizations, the role of structure from bureaucracy through modern down-sized, entrepreneurial forms, the relationship of management style and practices to growth in organizations, and the role of the human relations and organizational development practitioner.
View course details in MyPlan: TNPRFT 432
TNPRFT 448 Cultural Administration and Policy (5) I&S
Analyzes the social, cultural, economic and creative foundations of cultural management and policy. Emphasizes critical and creative thinking in evaluating the role and function of non-profit arts institutions within the complex fabric of contemporary society. Examines municipal, state, and federal spheres of influence on public policy.
View course details in MyPlan: TNPRFT 448
TNPRFT 449 Museum Studies (5) I&S
Introduces the history, philosophy, organization, administration, and practice of museums. Covers the changing emphases on the role of museums in cultural, socioeconomic and political contexts; collection management, exhibition and program planning, education, cultural tourism, community outreach, and marketing.
View course details in MyPlan: TNPRFT 449
TNPRFT 450 Methods of Museum Interpretation (5) VLPA
Explores theories, practices, and evaluation of museum interpretation in its greatest sense - from programs and exhibits to educational product development. Addresses the presentation history, art, literature, and science through a cross-disciplinary approach.
View course details in MyPlan: TNPRFT 450
TNPRFT 451 Essentials of Grant Writing (5) I&S
Prepares students to be grant writers in the nonprofit sector. Provides an overview of the best practices, systems, and management principles underlying successful grant writing programs including developing a case statement, and subsequently, writing and submitting a grant application. Prerequisite: either TNPRFT 231 or TNPRFT 431.
View course details in MyPlan: TNPRFT 451
TNPRFT 453 Nonprofit Financial Literacy (5) I&S
Covers financial reporting; budgeting and control; and financial development (fundraising) for the nonprofit sector. Focuses on financial management in the nonprofit sector; differences from reporting in the profit sector; safeguarding financial resources, revenue and expense budges, and tax and payroll requirements; and fundraising. Prerequisite: either TNPRFT 231 or TNPRFT 431.
View course details in MyPlan: TNPRFT 453
TNPRFT 457 Nonprofit Capstone (5) I&S
Builds on a project or interest developed by students during the nonprofit management minor internship in a nonprofit organization. Includes work on some professional nonprofit management area. Produces a demonstrable example of expertise and interest, such as a personnel manual, strategic plan, or annual fund development plan.
View course details in MyPlan: TNPRFT 457
TNPRFT 490 Nonprofit Practicum (5) I&S
Merges theory and practice preparing students for a career in nonprofit organizations. Prerequisite: either TNPRFT 231 or TNPRFT 431; either TNPRFT 432 or T BUS 300; either TNPRFT 451 or TNPRFT 453.
View course details in MyPlan: TNPRFT 490
TNPRFT 531 Community Organizations and the Nonprofit Sector (5)
Prepares students for a career in nonprofit organizations. Examines management and leadership; the role of board and executive leadership in providing governance and strategic direction; organization development; human resource management; organizational performance and effectiveness; and legal, ethical, and financial oversight. Cannot be taken for credit if credit earned in TNPRFT 431.
View course details in MyPlan: TNPRFT 531
TNPRFT 532 Organizational Development (5)
Explores theory and research focused on nonprofit 501(c)(3) organizations regarding the relationship of management and leadership style and practices to growth and sustainability in nonprofits, as well as review and apply relevant current organizational assessment practices, and identify possible collaborative strategies to maximize collective resources to benefit the larger community.
View course details in MyPlan: TNPRFT 532
TNPRFT 551 Essentials of Grant Writing (5)
Prepares students to be grant writers in the nonprofit sector. Provides an overview of the best practices, systems, and management principles underlying successful grant writing programs including developing a case statement, and subsequently, writing and submitting a grant application. Prerequisite: TNPRFT 531.
View course details in MyPlan: TNPRFT 551
TNPRFT 553 Nonprofit Financial Literacy (5)
Covers financial reporting; budgeting and control; and financial development (fundraising) for the nonprofit sector. Focuses on financial management in the nonprofit sector; differences from reporting in the profit sector; safeguarding financial resources, revenue and expense budges, and tax and payroll requirements; and fundraising. Prerequisite: TNPRFT 531.
View course details in MyPlan: TNPRFT 553
TNPRFT 590 Nonprofit Practicum (5)
Merges theory and practice preparing students for a career in nonprofit organizations. Prerequisite: TNPRFT 531; TNPRFT 532; either TNPRFT 551 or TNPRFT 553.
View course details in MyPlan: TNPRFT 590
TNPRFT 601 Internship (1-10, max. 15)
Emphasizes integration of theory and practice for internship in nonprofit sector. Conducted under supervision of a faculty member in collaboration with agency sponsor.
View course details in MyPlan: TNPRFT 601
T PHIL 101 Introduction to Philosophy (5) I&S
Major philosophical questions relating to such matters as the existence of God, the foundations of knowledge, the nature of reality, and the nature of morality. Approach may be either historical or topical.
View course details in MyPlan: T PHIL 101
T PHIL 200 Introduction to the Philosophy of Human Rights (5) I&S
Introduces and discusses different philosophical views on humanity, good, rights, universality, and other concepts that have influenced our understanding of human rights.
View course details in MyPlan: T PHIL 200
T PHIL 240 Introduction to Ethics (5) VLPA/I&S
Critical introduction to various philosophical views of the basis and presuppositions of morality and moral knowledge. Critical introduction to various types of normative ethical theory, including utilitarian, deontological, and virtue theories.
View course details in MyPlan: T PHIL 240
T PHIL 250 Practical Reasoning (5) I&S, QSR
Introduces concepts and methods useful for practical analysis of arguments in everyday contexts; meaning, syllogisms, inductive and deductive inference, informal fallacies, argument structure, moral reasoning, and legal reasoning.
View course details in MyPlan: T PHIL 250
T PHIL 251 Data and Discourse (5) I&S
Explores the role of data in contemporary discourse and develops proficiency in evaluating arguments involving data. The ability to evaluate quantitative evidence is becoming increasingly central to scholarly discourse, political debate, and daily life.
View course details in MyPlan: T PHIL 251
T PHIL 314 Philosophy of Crime and Punishment (5) I&S
Examination of philosophical theories regarding criminal habits and punishment and the philosophical problems connected with specific topics in criminal law. Examines proper subject matter of criminal law (drug use, pornography, euthanasia); limits of criminal sanctions; crime and privilege (corporate crime, white-collar crime, blackmail); justifications for punishment; mercy; and execution.
View course details in MyPlan: T PHIL 314
T PHIL 350 Contemporary Search for Meaning (5) I&S
Examines the search for human meaning and value as it has emerged in the writings of modern philosophy, psychology and literature. Explores how the quest for different forms of meaning has developed and how that quest has been answered.
View course details in MyPlan: T PHIL 350
T PHIL 353 The End of the Modern World: 1600 - 2000 (5) I&S
Investigates the origin, influence and definition of the modern period. Explores the fundamental images and assumptions of this period and discusses the forces that are undermining them. Concludes with a consideration of what may replace these images and assumptions in the next few decades.
View course details in MyPlan: T PHIL 353
T PHIL 354 American Modes of Thought and Experience (5) I&S
Explores the roots of the American experience in its European intellectual and cultural background. Focuses on the peculiarly American angle of vision and value in the development of its cultural heritage. Examines the contribution of tradition and change to that experience and to subsequent philosophical reflection upon it.
View course details in MyPlan: T PHIL 354
T PHIL 355 The Mind of Modernity (5) VLPA/I&S
Looks at how since the sixteenth century, new and competing ways of understanding ourselves, the natural and human worlds, and our place in them, have defined European modernity. Examines a selection of original artistic, scientific, philosophical, and literary texts. Emphasizes reading, discussion, and writing.
View course details in MyPlan: T PHIL 355
T PHIL 356 Themes in American Philosophy (5, max. 10) I&S
Examines the origins, development, and present status of movements in American philosophical. Includes thinkers such as James, Dewey, Pierce, Royce, Whitehead, Santayana, Rorty, and others. May be repeated for credit with instructor's approval.
View course details in MyPlan: T PHIL 356
T PHIL 357 The Greek Mind and Imagination (5) I&S
Explores what makes the contribution of the Greeks so unique in the formation and heritage of Western Civilization. Examines some of their major human expressions and achievements in art, philosophy, literature, and history. Attends to the continuing influence of these ideas, values, and institutions on the world today.
View course details in MyPlan: T PHIL 357
T PHIL 358 History of Philosophy: Medieval and Modern (5) I&S
Explores continuity in the concerns of thinkers from different places and eras, including such medieval and early modern philosophers as Augustine, Aquinas, Descartes, Hume, and Kant. Examines how they address questions about reality, thought, and the beautiful and the good.
View course details in MyPlan: T PHIL 358
T PHIL 359 Themes in Existentialism (5, max. 10)
Examines the human predicament as treated in the writings of existentialist philosophers and writers such as Nietzsche, Kierkegaard, Dostoevsky, Marcel, Heidegger, and Sartre. Examines historical origins, development, and present forms of existentialism. Assesses existentialism's impact on psychology, religion, literature, and the arts. May be repeated for credit with instructor's approval.
View course details in MyPlan: T PHIL 359
T PHIL 360 History of Philosophy: Modern and Contemporary (5) I&S
Examines idealism, pragmatism, and existentialism in historical context to discover ways in which they are responses to past ideas and ways in which they are new. Focuses on the way issues in philosophy remain the same even as ways of thinking about them change.
View course details in MyPlan: T PHIL 360
T PHIL 361 Ethics in Society (5) VLPA/I&S
Examines the meaning, nature, legitimacy, criteria, and foundations of moral judgment. Explores ethics as a branch of philosophy while focusing on particular ethical problems, such as war, race, abortion, justice, sexuality, medical issues of life and death, the environment, and the transactions of the business world.
View course details in MyPlan: T PHIL 361
T PHIL 362 The Beautiful and the Good: Philosophy's Quest for Value (5) I&S
Examines ideas about the beautiful and the good in the history of philosophy. Includes ideas of early thinkers and how they were adopted, transformed, or rejected by later thinkers. Studies different ideas from the history of philosophy about what the beautiful and the good are, how we know them and how we achieve them.
View course details in MyPlan: T PHIL 362
T PHIL 364 Topics in the Philosophy of Science (5, max. 10) I&S
Study of one or more current topics in philosophy of science such as scientific realism, explanation, confirmation, causation. Can not be taken if T PHIL 363 already taken. Prerequisite: one T PHIL course.
View course details in MyPlan: T PHIL 364
T PHIL 367 Utopias (5)
Explores the ideal society of the classical era and the Renaissance, and contrasts these early visions with the modern models of mass society and competitive markets in the light of the revolutionary experiences of the 19th and 20th centuries. Covers Utopian literature, political philosophy, economics, art, and music.
View course details in MyPlan: T PHIL 367
T PHIL 410 Social Philosophy (5) I&S
An examination of topics pertaining to social structures and institutions such as liberty, distributive justice, and human rights.
View course details in MyPlan: T PHIL 410
T PHIL 414 Philosophy of Law (5) I&S
Nature and function of law. Relation of law to morality. Legal rights, judicial reasoning.
View course details in MyPlan: T PHIL 414
T PHIL 451 The Enlightenment (5) I&S
Examines the Enlightenment as historical epoch, philosophical attitude, and social and political project. Explores ideas of selected thinkers (e.g., Jefferson, Montesquieu, Rousseau, Kant, Hume, Voltaire) and the reactions they inspire. Highlights themes such as liberalism, human rights, rationalism, republicanism, and neoclassicism.
View course details in MyPlan: T PHIL 451
T PHIL 455 Medicine and Morality: Issues in Biomedical Ethics (5) VLPA/I&S
Provides students with knowledge of ethical theory which is then applied to questions in medicine such as right to die, allocation of scarce medical resources, informed consent, and patient confidentiality.
View course details in MyPlan: T PHIL 455
T PHIL 456 Environmental Ethics (5) VLPA/I&S
Critical exploration of selected philosophical and literary texts pertinent to ethics attending the natural environment. Topics for consideration may include animal and nature rights, social ecology, natural value (instrumental, inherent, intrinsic), anthropocentrism v. Deep Ecology, and environmental aesthetic theory.
View course details in MyPlan: T PHIL 456
T PHIL 458 Ways of Knowing (5) I&S
Investigates key concepts and problems involved in the analysis and appraisal of human knowledge and critical thought. Emphasizes discerning the difference between truth and falsity, knowledge and opinion, correct and incorrect judgment and how these are critically grounded. Analyzes different theories of knowledge.
View course details in MyPlan: T PHIL 458
T PHIL 460 The Meaning of the Person (5) I&S
Explores philosophical and psychological concepts of the self and their implications. Discusses what it means to be a person and what constitutes a person. Asks how philosophy and psychology agree and disagree on what it means to be a person.
View course details in MyPlan: T PHIL 460
T PHIL 466 Modernity and Its Critics (5, max. 10) I&S
Considers various attempts to specify and critique the contours of Western modernity - in culture, philosophy, and political economy. Themes selected include the impact of Cartesian philosophy, science, and rationality on our concepts of the world, ourselves, our bodies, time, and human relations.
View course details in MyPlan: T PHIL 466
TPOL S 123 Introduction to Globalization (5) I&S
Provides an introduction to the debates over globalization. Focuses on the growth and intensification of global ties. Addresses the resulting inequalities and tensions, as well as the new opportunities for cultural and political exchange. Topics include the impacts on government, finance, labor, culture, the environment, health, and activism.
View course details in MyPlan: TPOL S 123
TPOL S 150 Introduction the American Legal System (5) I&S
Provides an introduction to the American legal system, and examines how judicial processes relate to American politics. Describes the organization of state and federal courts; judicial selection and elections; and the functioning of criminal, civil, and appellate courts, including the U.S. Supreme Court.
View course details in MyPlan: TPOL S 150
TPOL S 201 Introduction to Political Values and Ideas (5) I&S
Surveys a variety of implicit and explicit values that inspire political action. Explores whether there is such a thing as a universe interest and what it might be, who should rule, and whether justice will be done.
View course details in MyPlan: TPOL S 201
TPOL S 202 Introduction to American Politics (5) I&S
Institutions and politics in the American political system. Ways of thinking about how significant problems, crises, and conflicts of American society are resolved politically.
View course details in MyPlan: TPOL S 202
TPOL S 203 Introduction to International Relations (5) I&S
The world community, its politics, and government.
View course details in MyPlan: TPOL S 203
TPOL S 204 Introduction to Comparative Politics (5) I&S
Political systems in a comparative framework. Traditional and contemporary approaches to the study of governments and societies in different countries.
View course details in MyPlan: TPOL S 204
TPOL S 224 Modern Latin America (5) I&S
Provides multi-disciplinary examination of Latin America with social science emphasis. Discusses history of the region, sociological analysis of various Latin American institutions (the Church, the military, the labor movement). Considers migration issues and development economics, including a brief section on culture. examines of contemporary Latin American political and social issues.
View course details in MyPlan: TPOL S 224
TPOL S 229 Making of Modern Africa (5) I&S
Examines how African societies came to be and as they are today. Examines aspects of the experience of five centuries of the African Diaspora as they affected Africa and its peoples.
View course details in MyPlan: TPOL S 229
TPOL S 230 International Human Rights (5) I&S
Introduces historical origins, foundational theories, basic documents, personalities, and legal and political processes which have promoted international human rights as a widely accepted legal and moral foundation for a just world order.
View course details in MyPlan: TPOL S 230
TPOL S 251 Cultural Studies (5, max. 10) I&S
Selected themes in American and occasionally other modern and contemporary cultures. Themes and readings may include: advertising and consumer culture; class and culture, gender and sexuality, identity, and post-9/11 culture.
View course details in MyPlan: TPOL S 251
TPOL S 260 American Political Theory (5) I&S
Considers major issues and traditions in American thinking about democracy, citizenship, membership, and justice. Focuses on works by important thinkers from the Founding to the twentieth century. Includes conflicting visions and tensions associated with the demands of newly rising social groups, and American identities.
View course details in MyPlan: TPOL S 260
TPOL S 270 Introduction to Political Economy (5) I&S
Political economy as a tool for understanding and evaluating the political world. Combines theory, methods, and insights derived from economics and political science and applies them to a range of substantive issues.
View course details in MyPlan: TPOL S 270
TPOL S 300 Mass Media and U.S. Politics (5) I&S
Examines role of mass audiences in politics from the standpoint of the communication strategies used to shape their political involvement. Topics include: social structure and political participation, political propaganda and persuasion, the political uses of public opinion, and the mass media and politics.
View course details in MyPlan: TPOL S 300
TPOL S 305 Campaigns and Elections (5) I&S
Analyzes local, state, and federal elections to examine the role of election rules and organizations on political outcomes. Also evaluates the role of political parties, candidates, the media, financing, political strategies, and various interest groups on who gets elected and how.
View course details in MyPlan: TPOL S 305
TPOL S 310 Modern European Political Theory (5) I&S
Examines the emergence and development of modern European political thought through selected works by some of its most important exponents. Analyzes answers to questions about the nature of a political community, about citizenship and rights, about the evolving meaning of freedom, equality, and democracy.
View course details in MyPlan: TPOL S 310
TPOL S 312 19th Century Revolutions and Revolutionaries (5) I&S
Examines the major revolutionary events and ideas of the 19th century: liberalism, socialism, nationalism, and anarchism. Emphasizes discussion of political theories, movements, and their relationships to underlying historical processes. Ends with consideration of how these revolutions and revolutionaries helped define the political agenda for 20th century.
View course details in MyPlan: TPOL S 312
TPOL S 314 Twentieth-Century Revolutions (5) I&S
An interdisciplinary look at four major 20th-century revolutions: Russia, China, Cuba, and Nicaragua. Begins with political theories of revolution, then discusses the historical process which accomplished each of the four revolutions, and ends with a discussion of how these revolutions established political legitimacy and culture.
View course details in MyPlan: TPOL S 314
TPOL S 317 The Politics of Race and Ethnicity in the United States (5) I&S, DIV
Explores the early historical formation of racial categories, segregation, and discrimination and how these continue to be reflected in modern racial hierarchies in the United States and examines the roles played by race and racism in poverty, crime control, and immigration.
View course details in MyPlan: TPOL S 317
TPOL S 320 American Constitutional Law: Institutional Powers and Constraints (5) I&S
Explores the role of the Supreme Court in interpreting the United States Constitution. Covers the role of the federal government in relationship with the states, judicial review, the separation of powers, and economic due process.
View course details in MyPlan: TPOL S 320
TPOL S 321 American Foreign Policy (5) I&S
Constitutional framework; major factors in formulation and execution of policy; policies as modified by recent developments; the principal policymakers-President, Congress, political parties, pressure groups, and public opinion.
View course details in MyPlan: TPOL S 321
TPOL S 325 Issues in Local Government (5) I&S
Examines a particular topic that confronts local governments. Topics include fiscal/budget issues, education policy, safety, or intergovernmental relations.
View course details in MyPlan: TPOL S 325
TPOL S 326 Modern Brazil (5) I&S
Traces the development of modern Brazil from independence to the present. Emphasizes populism, the evolution of the military, the economic miracle, and contemporary social issues.
View course details in MyPlan: TPOL S 326
TPOL S 328 International Organizations (5) I&S
Explores historical, theoretical, and empirical aspects of the United Nations, its specialized agencies, and other international organizations, both governmental and nongovernmental.
View course details in MyPlan: TPOL S 328
TPOL S 330 International Political Economy of Latin America (5) I&S
Exploration of politics underlying Latin America's economic development. Topics covered include import-substituting industrialization, mercantilism, the debt crisis, neoliberalism, market integration, and poverty. Review of major theoretical perspectives such as modernization theory, dependency, and the new political economy.
View course details in MyPlan: TPOL S 330
TPOL S 340 Middle East Politics (5) I&S
Study of democracy/ authoritarianism; ethnic, religious, and national identity; civil society, social movements, and gender; political economy, and issues of development in the Middle East.
View course details in MyPlan: TPOL S 340
TPOL S 342 Third-World Cities (5) I&S
Studies growth of selected Third World cities and the spatial, ethnic and class divisions within them. Introduces their historical legacy, previous ties to colonial rules, and pressures to remain centers of capitalist production. Examines urban "bias" and subsequent concentration of economic, political, and cultural power in terms of political and survival struggles.
View course details in MyPlan: TPOL S 342
TPOL S 348 Gender and Law (5) I&S, DIV
Studies the way gender norms influence legal processes and the role of the law in gendered social change. Explores some of the practical strategies men and women may employ in order to negotiate and use gendered constraints to their advantage.
View course details in MyPlan: TPOL S 348
TPOL S 353 United States Congress (5) I&S
Studies the organization of Congress, the influence of interest groups, legislative roles, and the theory and practice of representative government. Prerequisite: TPOL S 202.
View course details in MyPlan: TPOL S 353
TPOL S 361 American Constitutional Law: Rights and Liberties (5) I&S
Explores the role of the United States Supreme Court in interpreting the Bill of Rights. Covers topics such as freedom of speech and religion, privacy, equal protection, and criminal due process.
View course details in MyPlan: TPOL S 361
TPOL S 363 Law in Society (5) I&S
Inquiry into how law matters in social practice. Examines general theories of law, the workings of legal institutions, and the character of legally constituted practices and relationships in diverse terrains of social life.
View course details in MyPlan: TPOL S 363
TPOL S 367 Comparative Law and Courts (5) I&S
Introduces comparative judicial politics, focusing on the relationship between law and politics in cross-national perspective, as well as the function of supranational and international legal entities in the international system.
View course details in MyPlan: TPOL S 367
TPOL S 368 The Politics and Law of International Human Rights (5) I&S
Studies the international human rights movement in its legal and political context. Focus on institutions which influence, enable, and constrain the international promotion of human rights.
View course details in MyPlan: TPOL S 368
TPOL S 371 The Politics of Security (5) I&S
Investigates competing theories of security and examines the historical emergence of security as a chief concern in both international relations and contemporary politics more broadly. Explores the debate over a variety of current security concerns such as war, climate change, data surveillance, and technological development.
View course details in MyPlan: TPOL S 371
TPOL S 382 State Government (5) I&S
Focus on the structures, processes, and policy outputs of state governments in the United States.
View course details in MyPlan: TPOL S 382
TPOL S 400 The American Presidency (5) I&S
Examines the American presidency, its evolution, its occupants, and its place within the American system. Topics include presidential character, war, elections, the economy, and the Constitution. Offered: Sp.
View course details in MyPlan: TPOL S 400
TPOL S 405 Advanced Campaigns and Elections (5) I&S
Produces advanced analysis of local, state, and federal elections and political campaigns as applied to specific political campaigns, initiative, or election-related issues. Involves independent applied research. Prerequisite: TPOL S 305.
View course details in MyPlan: TPOL S 405
TPOL S 410 Labor Rights and Human Rights (5) I&S, DIV
Examines labor in western society, exploring the historical emergence of various concepts of labor rights and developing an analysis of labor and human rights in contemporary world order. Topics include slavery, labor and liberalism, individualism and collective labor rights under capitalism, economic security, and labor rights in a global economy.
View course details in MyPlan: TPOL S 410
TPOL S 411 Human Rights and Violence in the Third World (5) I&S
Examines political violence and human rights concerns in under-developed regions. Establishes broad, inclusive definitions of violence and human rights.
View course details in MyPlan: TPOL S 411
TPOL S 420 Theories of Political Violence (5) I&S
Establishes broad, inclusive definitions of violence. Reviews the theoretical discourse on the nature of violence as a political phenomenon. Themes include terrorism (both non-authoritative and state-sponsored), civil conflicts, and "tools" or calculated manifestations of violence (torture, massacres), the relationship between violence and development, and the relationship between culture and violence.
View course details in MyPlan: TPOL S 420
TPOL S 421 Human Rights in Emerging Democracies: Eastern Europe and Latin America (5) I&S
Examines the role of human rights in the context of democratization. Compares emerging democracies in Eastern Europe with counterparts in Latin America, and develops an understanding of the relationship between the two phenomena.
View course details in MyPlan: TPOL S 421
TPOL S 422 International Humanitarian Law (5) I&S
Investigates International Humanitarian Law (sometimes called the Law of Armed Conflict), the field concerned with rules developed by civilized nations to protect the victims of armed conflict, including the Geneva Conventions. Case studies include the conflict between Israel and the Palestinians, as well as developments in Afghanistan and Iraq.
View course details in MyPlan: TPOL S 422
TPOL S 423 International Law (5) I&S
Origin and present status of efforts to make rules of conduct for sovereign states; simulation of a treaty-drafting conference, with students playing roles of legal advisers to foreign governments.
View course details in MyPlan: TPOL S 423
TPOL S 425 Comparative Social Policy (5) I&S
Explores current social policy issues in the United States, Canada, and Nordic countries from a comparative perspective. Examines history and political structures that influences implementation of social policies. Offered: jointly with TSOCWF 425.
View course details in MyPlan: TPOL S 425
TPOL S 426 World Politics (5) I&S
The nation-state system and its alternatives, world distributions of preferences and power, structure of international authority, historical world societies and their politics.
View course details in MyPlan: TPOL S 426
TPOL S 427 Gorbachev and the Second Russian Revolution (5) I&S
Examines Soviet Union during the Gorbachev era. Compares traditional Soviet lifestyle and changes produced by Gorbachev's policies of glasnost and perestroika. Include topics such as ethnic issues, political reforms, economic liberalization, and cultural developments. Examines collapse of USSR and speculates on the future of nations which make up the former Soviet Union.
View course details in MyPlan: TPOL S 427
TPOL S 428 The Soviet Experience (5) I&S
Explores Soviet society and politics since the Bolshevik Revolution. Examines the nature of the revolution, liberalization during the NEP period, Stalinism, World War II, and the changes taking place during the Khrushchev and Brezhnev eras. Focuses on how the lives of Soviet people changed during 70 years of their country's history.
View course details in MyPlan: TPOL S 428
TPOL S 431 Conflict and Cooperation in the Middle East (5) I&S
Investigates regional politics and security in the Middle East; conflict and collaboration among local powers; politics of oil, and relations with global power. Incorporates case studies such as Palestinian-Israeli conflict, nuclear arms, and the Persian Gulf security. Study of regional and global factors.
View course details in MyPlan: TPOL S 431
TPOL S 435 Popular Movements in Latin America (5) I&S
Examines popular movements in Latin America, including historical background of modern popular organizations, an analysis of the evolution of the discourse surrounding the terms "popular movement," "social movement," and "civil society." Discusses contemporary trade unionism, grass-roots peoples' initiatives, cooperative movements, guerrilla organizations, human rights groups, and feminist movements.
View course details in MyPlan: TPOL S 435
TPOL S 438 Environmental Law (5) I&S
Examines the historical and policy framework of major environmental laws and regulations. Takes a case law approach to evaluate laws in biological conservation, energy, land use, mineral rights, air and water quality, and other complex environmental arenas, and how courts (primarily in the United States) have interpreted such laws.
View course details in MyPlan: TPOL S 438
TPOL S 440 American Foreign Policy in the Middle East (5) I&S
Examines the Middle East through the lens of US foreign policy objectives, focusing on the developments of US policy towards the Middle East from 1945 to the present.
View course details in MyPlan: TPOL S 440
TPOL S 448 Human Rights in Latin America - Argentina Study Abroad (5) I&S
Examines the history, theory, and practice of international human rights in Latin America. Explores human rights from human rights lawyers and activists, while living, studying, and working in Argentina. Taught in English at the Association of International Studies in Buenos Aires. Prerequisite: T SPAN 102.
View course details in MyPlan: TPOL S 448
TPOL S 450 Contemporary Theories of Culture (5, max. 10) I&S
Studies recent anthropological theory and contemporary cultural theory. Includes topics such as cultural theory, British cultural studies, critical theory, and post-modernism; or ideology, culture, and cultural resistance; ethnocentrism, relativism; class and race; the social body; self and other; gender and sexuality. May be repeated for credit with instructor's approval.
View course details in MyPlan: TPOL S 450
TPOL S 451 Human Rights and the Use of Force (5) I&S
Covers both the history and sources of international law, including the system of treaties and emerging principles of customary law. Examines the conditions under which military force is justified, looking specifically at the war against terrorism, and world events since September 11, 2001.
View course details in MyPlan: TPOL S 451
TPOL S 452 Minorities and the Law (5) I&S, DIV
Examines the 20th century evolution of equal protection and due process. Particular focus placed upon the case law, its societal context, and its impact upon persons of color.
View course details in MyPlan: TPOL S 452
TPOL S 453 Political Theory of Human Rights (5) I&S
Examines understandings and influence of idea of human rights. Considers conflicts and contradictions between human rights claims and national sovereignty, cultural difference, democracy.
View course details in MyPlan: TPOL S 453
TPOL S 456 Community and Labor Organizing: A Multicultural Perspective (5) I&S, DIV
Explores current community and labor organizing issues through intersections of gender, race, class, and immigration. Discussions of labor movements, community and environmental coalitions, living wage, social justice, and anti-sweatshop campaigns, in context of globalization. Case studies and issues vary.
View course details in MyPlan: TPOL S 456
TPOL S 460 Political Economy of the European Union (5) I&S
Historical foundation of the European Economic Community; major phases of its development; theoretical explanations for European integration.
View course details in MyPlan: TPOL S 460
TPOL S 465 Law and Public Policy in the United States (5) I&S
Relationship between law and public policy, with particular attention to problems of social, economic, and political change. Considers legal and constitutional processes as they relate to such problems of public policy as race relations, the environment, and the economy.
View course details in MyPlan: TPOL S 465
TPOL S 480 Politics: Philosophy and Public Affairs Seminar (5, max. 10) I&S
Provides in-depth treatment of topics in politics and philosophy; political economy; law and policy; economics and policy; and ethics and economics. Emphasizes analysis of methodological issues and developing students' research and writing skills.
View course details in MyPlan: TPOL S 480
TPOL S 485 Study Abroad in Politics, Philosophy, and Economics (5-15, max. 24) I&S
Uses an international setting to explore particular political-economic-philosophical problems or dilemmas. Taught on site and includes interaction with foreign scholars, local exhibits and sites, and local community experiences where appropriate.
View course details in MyPlan: TPOL S 485
TPOL S 486 Field Work in Law and Policy (5) I&S
Applies work in policy and law. Student engage in fieldwork and research to examine a policy issue in the community. Working collaboratively with community members and lawmakers, students propose legislation, and publicly present recommendations to lawmakers. Prerequisite: either TPOL S 202 or TPOL S 382; T ECON 410.
View course details in MyPlan: TPOL S 486
TPOL S 496 Politics, Philosophy, and Public Affairs Internship (5-15, max. 15)
Internships in federal, state and local government; international organizations; non profit and lobbying organizations; and research and advocacy organizations.
View course details in MyPlan: TPOL S 496
TPOL S 497 Political Internship in State Government (1-15, max. 20)
Students serving in approved internship program with state government agencies.
View course details in MyPlan: TPOL S 497
TPSYCH 101 Introduction to Psychology (5) I&S
Surveys major areas of psychological science, including human social behavior, personality, psychological disorders and treatment, learning, memory, human development, biological influences, and research methods. Related topics may include sensation, perception, states of consciousness, thinking, intelligence, language, motivation, emotion, stress and health, cross-cultural psychology, and applied psychology.
View course details in MyPlan: TPSYCH 101
TPSYCH 202 Human Sexuality (5) I&S
Surveys biological, psychological, and social determinants of human sexuality and sexual behavior. Topics include cultural diversity, sexual development (physical and psychological), sexual health, reproduction (pregnancy, contraception, abortion), development of sex, gender orientation, adult sexual bonding, sexual abuse and assault. Prerequisite: either TPSYCH 101 or PSYCH 101.
View course details in MyPlan: TPSYCH 202
TPSYCH 209 Fundamentals of Psychological Research I (5) I&S
Explores the basics of inquiry and research in the social sciences. Topics include the hypothesis testing, experimental design, research strategies/techniques, fundamentals of scientific writing, search and evaluation of literature in psychology, and ethical issues in psychological research. Prerequisite: TPSYCH 101; minimum grade of 2.0 in either TMATH 110, T BGEN 200, T HLTH 305, TSOCWF 351, or T URB 225.
View course details in MyPlan: TPSYCH 209
TPSYCH 210 Abnormal Psychology (5) I&S
Historical and current definitions, theory, and research concerning abnormal psychological behavior. Major categories of psychopathology, including related treatment approaches. Assignments include: illustrative case studies, written critical perspectives of course materials, and interpretative analysis of major topics in field. Prerequisite: either TPSYCH 101 or PSYCH 101.
View course details in MyPlan: TPSYCH 210
TPSYCH 212 Child Abnormal Psychology (5) I&S
Examines historical and current definitions, theory, and research concerning child and adolescent abnormal behavior. Covers major categories of psychopathology, including related treatment approaches. Includes illustrative case studies, written critical perspectives of course materials, and interpretative analysis of major topics in the field. Prerequisite: either TPSYCH 101 or PSYCH 101.
View course details in MyPlan: TPSYCH 212
TPSYCH 220 Lifespan Development (5) I&S
Explores human cognitive and psychosocial development across the lifespan. Covers theories, methodologies, and research findings using a lifespan approach, which examines continuity and change from conception to death and the interaction of biological, psychological, and social aspects of development. Prerequisite: either TPSYCH 101 or PSYCH 101.
View course details in MyPlan: TPSYCH 220
TPSYCH 222 Infant and Child Development (5) I&S
Provides a comprehensive foundation in the twentieth century theories and ongoing research and evolving understanding of development in infancy and childhood in the twenty-first century. Covers genetics, embryology, fetal development, and explores developmental achievements from infancy to middle childhood. Prerequisite: TPSYCH 101.
View course details in MyPlan: TPSYCH 222
TPSYCH 230 Educational Psychology (5) I&S
Explores individual learning and the educational process. Emphasis on theories of cognition, personal/social/moral development, learning differences, and motivation. Covers cultural/community influences on the learner and educational process. Includes overview of teacher roles, classroom management, educational assessment. Prerequisite: either TPSYCH 101 or PSYCH 101.
View course details in MyPlan: TPSYCH 230
TPSYCH 240 Social Psychology (5) I&S
Surveys the major areas of social psychology, the science of human behavior in social situations. Emphasizes an understanding of the important methods, terms, theories and findings in social psychology. Prerequisite: either TPSYCH 101 or PSYCH 101.
View course details in MyPlan: TPSYCH 240
TPSYCH 250 Human Cognition (5) I&S
Surveys cognitive psychology related to the mental processes associated with acquiring, storing, transforming, and using knowledge. Topics include perception, attention, learning, memory, metacognition, imagery, language, problem solving, and decision-making. Emphasizes identifying these concepts in everyday situations and application to educational and criminal justice fields. May not be taken for credit if TPSYCH 355 already taken. Prerequisite: either TPSYCH 101 or PSYCH 101.
View course details in MyPlan: TPSYCH 250
TPSYCH 260 Biopsychology (5) I&S/NW
Focuses on the biological events that influence psychological processes and behaviors. Topics include the structure and function of the nervous system, and the biological bases of sensation and perception, motivation, learning, cognition and communication, emotion, and mental disorders. Prerequisite: either TPSYCH 101 or PSYCH 101.
View course details in MyPlan: TPSYCH 260
TPSYCH 300 History and Systems of Psychology (5) I&S
Examines historical, current, and theoretical systems in psychology, such as psychoanalysis, behaviorism, and existentialism. Offers a critical and philosophical examination of the field of psychology and its relationship to other disciplines. Prerequisite: either TPSYCH 101 or PSYCH 101.
View course details in MyPlan: TPSYCH 300
TPSYCH 301 Psychology of Adjustment (5) I&S
Covers research and theory about how people cope with change and adjustment. Focuses on change in theories of human development, the ways in which change is assumed to occur, strategies for managing change at the personal, organizational and societal level and the relationship between stress or social disorder and change. Prerequisite: either TPSYCH 101 or PSYCH 101.
View course details in MyPlan: TPSYCH 301
TPSYCH 306 Community Psychology, Research, and Action (5) I&S
Introduces community psychology, a field examining the interrelationship between individual well-being and the multiple social systems with which individuals interact. Covers the principles and approaches of community psychology, including attention to diversity and equity; social change; and community-based, participatory, and action research methods. Prerequisite: TPSYCH 209.
View course details in MyPlan: TPSYCH 306
TPSYCH 309 Fundamentals of Psychological Research II (5) I&S
Explores forms of inquiry form empirical laboratory research to fieldwork and phenomenological methods discussed in relationship to types of problem and research questions. Discusses quantitative and qualitative methods for gathering and reporting data as well as design, control, and the problem of interpretation and bias. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in TPSYCH 209.
View course details in MyPlan: TPSYCH 309
TPSYCH 310 Controversies in Clinical Psychology (5) I&S
Explores advanced abnormal psychology topics, including controversies and social issues in mental health assessment, treatment, and diagnosis. Prerequisite: either TPSYCH 210 or TPSYCH 212.
View course details in MyPlan: TPSYCH 310
TPSYCH 311 Personality Theory (5) I&S
Covers the major theories of personality within the field of psychology. Students compare and contrast theoretical models, gain understanding of their development within the context of the theorists' lives, and apply the theories to their own life experience. Prerequisite: either TPSYCH 101 or PSYCH 101.
View course details in MyPlan: TPSYCH 311
TPSYCH 312 Mental Illness Across Cultures (5) I&S, DIV
Explores advanced abnormal psychology topics from a global perspective such as how mental illness is understood by different cultures and in different historical periods. Prerequisite: either TPSYCH 210 or TPSYCH 212.
View course details in MyPlan: TPSYCH 312
TPSYCH 313 Personalities Disorders (5) I&S
Examines current models and empirical research on personality disorders. Includes case studies, empirical data, and theoretical explanations of personality disorders. Prerequisite: TPSYCH 210.
View course details in MyPlan: TPSYCH 313
TPSYCH 314 Tests and Measurements (5)
Explores the theory, methods, and applications of psychological testing and evaluates the advantages and drawbacks of psychological testing in general, and selected tests in particular. Prerequisite: TPSYCH 101; either TPSYCH 209 or TPSYCH 330.
View course details in MyPlan: TPSYCH 314
TPSYCH 320 Race, Class, and Gender Contexts of Child Development (5) I&S, DIV
Explores how cultural contexts that include racism, classism, and sexism, as well as other contexts, such as school, family, and neighborhood, differentially shape the experiences of children. Applies these contexts to specific topics, such as cognitive development, identity, moral development, families, peers, and media. Prerequisite: either TPSYCH 101 or PSYCH 101.
View course details in MyPlan: TPSYCH 320
TPSYCH 321 Adolescent Psychology (5) I&S
Explores the multiple contexts of adolescents' lives, including the interactions of biology, psychology, and sociocultural aspects of development. Prerequisite: either TPSYCH 100 or PSYCH 101
View course details in MyPlan: TPSYCH 321
TPSYCH 322 Adult Development (5) I&S
Examines adult development, beginning with the transition to adulthood through young, middle, and old adulthood. Focuses on diverse individual experiences and social/contextual factors in the U.S. and their effect on the changes, choices, opportunities, and paths through adulthood. Prerequisite: either TPSYCH 100 or PSYCH 101
View course details in MyPlan: TPSYCH 322
TPSYCH 323 Parenting Practices and Parent-Child Relationships (5) I&S
Examines current theory, research and training concerning parenting practices and parent-child relationships, as well as diverse parenting beliefs and practices. Considers how parenting and parent-child relationships are shaped by contextual factors such as culture, socioeconomic class, race, ethnicity, gender and sexual identity. Prerequisite: either TPSYCH 101 or PSYCH 101
View course details in MyPlan: TPSYCH 323
TPSYCH 328 Moral Development, Technology, and the Natural World (5) I&S
Examines historic and contemporary theories in moral development and ethics. Includes an in-depth look at how human beings develop moral sensitivity, the influence of the natural world on moral development and new moral issues created by emerging technologies. Prerequisite: either TPSYCH 220 or TPSYCH 222.
View course details in MyPlan: TPSYCH 328
TPSYCH 330 Inquiry and Research in the Social Sciences (5) I&S
Forms of inquiry from empirical laboratory or bench research to field work and phenomenological methods discussed in relationship to types of problem and research questions. Discusses quantitative and qualitative methods for gathering and reporting data as well as design, control, and the problem of interpretation and bias. Prerequisite: either TMATH 110, T HLTH 305, TSOCWF 351, STAT 220, STAT 311, or T URB 225.
View course details in MyPlan: TPSYCH 330
TPSYCH 340 Environmental Psychology (5) I&S
Surveys psychological theory and research on the transactions between people and the physical environment. Topics include environmental perception and assessment; dynamics of social space; effects of temperature, sound, light, and spatial arrangements in workplaces, homes, schools and neighborhoods; and social design. Prerequisite: TPSYCH 101.
View course details in MyPlan: TPSYCH 340
TPSYCH 341 Psychology of Urban Living (5) I&S
Covers issues affecting people living and working in urban environments from a psychological perspective. Topics include health and social wellness of urban populations; issues and initiatives concerning crowding; noise; wayfinding; crime prevention through environmental design; social design; and sustainability at the community level. Prerequisite: TPSYCH 101.
View course details in MyPlan: TPSYCH 341
TPSYCH 345 Stereotyping, Prejudice, and Discrimination (5) I&S, DIV
Examines stereotyping, prejudice, and discrimination from a social psychological perspective, including phenomena and processes associated with beliefs, attitudes, and evaluative responses toward groups, and behaviors toward members of groups based on their group status. Covers the science-based evidence and implications of stereotyping, prejudice, and discrimination. Prerequisite: TPSYCH 240.
View course details in MyPlan: TPSYCH 345
TPSYCH 346 Skepticism and Critical Thinking (5) I&S
Investigates common errors in human judgment, including bogus claims, pseudoscience, the paranormal, and everyday reasoning. Focuses on the processes of human cognition that lead to beliefs, and emphasizes use of the scientific method to critically evaluate the social world. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in TPSYCH 209.
View course details in MyPlan: TPSYCH 346
TPSYCH 349 Sexual Identities (5) I&S
Explores the lives and current issues facing lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) persons, with particular attention to developmental, community, and political issues and their intersections. Emphasizes current areas of consensus and discord among members within, across, and outside these communities.
View course details in MyPlan: TPSYCH 349
TPSYCH 350 Human Memory (5) I&S
Covers research and theory in key areas of memory. Issues include information processing theory, the link between memory processes and their biological underpinnings, autobiographical memory, implicit memory, and the effect of emotion on memory. Prerequisite: TPSYCH 250.
View course details in MyPlan: TPSYCH 350
TPSYCH 351 Psychology of Perception (5)
Explores the psychological, biological, and cultural contributions to the perceptual processes mediating our ability to see, hear, touch, taste, and smell. Emphasis is place on understanding vision and its role in action and perception. Prerequisite: TPSYCH 101.
View course details in MyPlan: TPSYCH 351
TPSYCH 352 Judgment and Decision-Making (5) I&S
Examines current models and empirical research on human information processing in judgment and decision making. Includes both normative and descriptive theories of decision making with a focus on decision making under risk and uncertainty. Prerequisite: either TPSYCH 101 or PSYCH 101; either TMATH 110, T HLTH 305, T URB 225, TSOCWF 351, STAT 220, or STAT 311.
View course details in MyPlan: TPSYCH 352
TPSYCH 360 Health Psychology (5) I&S
Introduces the field of health psychology, which is concerned with how biological characteristics, behavioral factors, and social conditions influence health and illness. Topics include the foundation of health psychology, health behavior and primary prevention, stress and coping, treatment setting, and chronic illness. Prerequisite: either TPSYCH 101 or PSYCH 101.
View course details in MyPlan: TPSYCH 360
TPSYCH 361 Psychopharmacology (5) I&S/NW
Introduces physiological and synaptic mechanisms by which psychotropic medications are used for treatment of mental health. Topics include: research methods of pharmacology, neural communication, synaptic mechanisms of drug actions, and critical analysis of social concerns of psychopharmacological agents. Prerequisite: either TPSYCH 101 or PSYCH 100; either TPSYCH 260 or TESC 130.
View course details in MyPlan: TPSYCH 361
TPSYCH 362 Psychophysiology of Stress and Stress Management (5) I&S
Examines psychological stress and the physiological mechanisms influencing mental and physical health. Evaluates coping process including relations with other psychological factors. Introduces stress management techniques used to enhance stress coping. Prerequisite: TPSYCH 260.
View course details in MyPlan: TPSYCH 362
TPSYCH 400 Psychology of Women (5) I&S, DIV
Focuses on psychological and feminist framework to the examination of women's lives and development. Emphasis on how gender and sexism interact with ethnicity, class, and age to influence women's understanding of themselves. Topics include gender differences, images of women, motherhood, and violence against women. Prerequisite: either TPSYCH 101 or PSYCH 101.
View course details in MyPlan: TPSYCH 400
TPSYCH 401 Family Violence (5) I&S
Comprehensive interdisciplinary investigation of the pervasive social problem of family violence. Explores the history, theoretical explanations, causes, and consequences of family violence, including intimate partner violence, date and marital rape, elder abuse, and child physical and sexual abuse. Prerequisite: either TPSYCH 101 or PSYCH 101.
View course details in MyPlan: TPSYCH 401
TPSYCH 403 Psychology of Black Women (5) I&S, DIV
Applies a psychological and feminist framework to the examination of black women's lives and development. Emphasizes the coping techniques used by black women throughout history. Topics include mental health, violence, male-female relationships, and cross-racial friendships. Prerequisite: either TPSYCH 101 or PSYCH 101.
View course details in MyPlan: TPSYCH 403
TPSYCH 404 Psychology of Food and Culture (5) I&S
Covers a global look at the social, symbolic, and political-economic roles of food and eating. Examines cultural, ethnic, and gender issues in relation to the production and consumption of food, as well as the neurobiological effects of certain foods on brain activity. Prerequisite: either TPSYCH 101 or PSYCH 101.
View course details in MyPlan: TPSYCH 404
TPSYCH 405 Body Image and the Psychology of Appearance (5) I&S
Examines the individual and social forces that shape body image, and psychological and physical correlates of body image. Influence of physical appearance on social perception is covered, and adaptation to social/psychological appearance demands in terms of both problems, such as eating disorders, and resistance. Prerequisite: either TPSYCH 101 or PSYCH 101.
View course details in MyPlan: TPSYCH 405
TPSYCH 406 Chemical Dependency (5) I&S
Examines the biological, psychological, social, and cultural factors involved in drug dependency. Examines prevention, intervention, treatment, and 12-step programs including those related to various ethnic and cultural groups. Prerequisite: either TPSYCH 101 or PSYCH 101.
View course details in MyPlan: TPSYCH 406
TPSYCH 407 The Cultural Context of Developmental Psychology (5) I&S
Extends understanding of basic ch9ld development by critiquing and placing in cultural context Western models of development and methodologies used to search for universal development. Explores importance of culture to understanding developmental processes and the political nature of developmental psychology. Prerequisite: either TPSYCH 100 or PSYCH 101.
View course details in MyPlan: TPSYCH 407
TPSYCH 409 Group Counseling and Dynamics (5, max. 15) I&S
Examines group work, group processes, patterns of communication, group and individual goal-setting, leadership, personal control, decision-making, self-esteem, and cultural factors. Includes role-playing and simulations and group participation. Prerequisite: either TPSYCH 101 or PSYCH 101.
View course details in MyPlan: TPSYCH 409
TPSYCH 410 Existential Psychology (5) I&S
Examines the philosophical and literary movement of existentialism and its impact on clinical psychology. Prerequisite: either TPSYCH 101 or PSYCH 101.
View course details in MyPlan: TPSYCH 410
TPSYCH 411 Psychology and the Arts (5) I&S
Examines the relationship between psychology as a research and clinical discipline and the arts, with a focus on the fine arts and music. Prerequisite: TPSYCH 101.
View course details in MyPlan: TPSYCH 411
TPSYCH 412 Women's Health: Power and Inequality (5) I&S
Places women's health in psychological, social, and political context. Surveys issues important to women's health, such as reproductive health, pregnancy and childbearing, mental health, and promoting women's health. Examines how gender interacts with ethnicity, social class, sexual orientation, and age in health and healthcare. Prerequisite: TPSYCH 101.
View course details in MyPlan: TPSYCH 412
TPSYCH 414 Psychology of Contemporary African-AMerican Culture (5) I&S
Examines issues of contemporary African-American culture using an interdisciplinary approach and a psychological perspective. Topics include arts and media representations, political involvement, language, identity development, and personal relationships. Emphasizes social context as a way to better understand the psychological functioning of individuals of African-American descent. Prerequisite: either TPSYCH 101 or PSYCH 101.
View course details in MyPlan: TPSYCH 414
TPSYCH 416 Freud and His Critics (5) I&S
Examines the work of Sigmund Freud, its impact on clinical psychology, and historical and contemporary criticisms of this theoretical school. Prerequisite: either TPSYCH 101 or PSYCH 101.
View course details in MyPlan: TPSYCH 416
TPSYCH 418 Lifespan Imaginative Play (5) I&S
Explores theories and research on imaginative play across the lifespan and its impact on learning and development across contexts (e.g., school, community organizations, and business/work) including considerable time playing with readings and other media and student-developed playful approaches to course activities and assignments. Prerequisite TPSYCH 220.
View course details in MyPlan: TPSYCH 418
TPSYCH 420 Attachment and Interpersonal Relations (5) I&S
Takes a historical approach examining infant and adult attachment from its interdisciplinary origins, through the development of the methods used to test the theory, to its current status. May also cover topics at the boundaries between attachment and other areas, such as culture or neuroscience. Prerequisite: TPSYCH 311.
View course details in MyPlan: TPSYCH 420
TPSYCH 421 Social Psychology, Law, and Society (5) I&S
Examines the interaction of social psychology and the law and the role both play in the development of legal policy. Considers selected topics at the forefront of psych-legal inquiry, such as eyewitness testimony, confession evidence, and implicit bias. Prerequisite: either TPSYCH 240, TPSYCH 250, T CRIM 200.
View course details in MyPlan: TPSYCH 421
TPSYCH 422 Psychology and the Legal System (5) I&S
Focuses on the application of psychological research methods and knowledge to contemporary issues in the legal system. Topics include psychology of policing, criminal profiling, serial killers, criminal investigations, pretrial publicity, competency/insanity, scientific jury selection, juror decision making, sentencing/death penalty, and the social scientist as an expert witness. Prerequisite: either TPSYCH 101 or PSYCH 101.
View course details in MyPlan: TPSYCH 422
TPSYCH 431 Sexual Deviance (5) I&S
Examines various psychological, sociological, and biological theories that purport to explain the causes, consequences, and cure for atypical sexual behaviors, including fetishism, exhibitionism, sexual addiction, pedophilia, and erotophonophilia (lust murder). Prerequisite: either TPSYCH 202 or TPSYCH 210.
View course details in MyPlan: TPSYCH 431
TPSYCH 432 Sex Crimes and Sexual Violence (5) I&S
Examines sexual criminality, its nature, characteristics, dimensions, and ramifications in American society and internationally. Topics include, sexual assault, sex offenders and survivors of childhood sexual abuse, and sexual predatory crimes, such as sex trafficking, prostitution, and child pornography. Prerequisite: either TPSYCH 101 or PSYCH 101.
View course details in MyPlan: TPSYCH 432
TPSYCH 441 Diversity and Health Psychology (5) I&S, DIV
Examines diverse personal, sociocultural, and institutional factors that have an impact on health and illness, including socioeconomic status, race/ethnicity/culture, gender, sexual orientation, aging, and disability. Prerequisite: either TPSYCH 101 or PSYCH 101.
View course details in MyPlan: TPSYCH 441
TPSYCH 445 Psychology of Superheroes: An Exploration of Good and Evil (5) I&S
Explores media's portrayal of heroes and villains and how the indoctrination of good and evil through these stereotypical images influences one's self-concept, esteem, and knowledge. Examines modern day heroes or villains by surveying how individuals relate to others through acts of altruism, inaction, and aggression. Prerequisite: TPSYCH 240.
View course details in MyPlan: TPSYCH 445
TPSYCH 450 Contemplative Science (5) I&S
Focuses on the interface between Buddhist studies and the use of Buddhist principles and practices in science. Examines Buddhist perspectives on mind, self, and consciousness, contemporary research on mind-body processes, and how Buddhist-based approaches are applied in social science, neuroscience, medicine, and consciousness studies. Prerequisite: minimum 3.0 grade in TPSYCH 101.
View course details in MyPlan: TPSYCH 450
TPSYCH 455 Immigrant Youth Development (5) I&S, DIV
Explores the development of children and adolescents in United States immigrant families in context, including in families, schools, and communities. Covers topics including individual differences within and across groups (e.g. ethnic group and family structure), and consequences of immigration policies and practices for well-being. Prerequisite: either TPSYCH 220 or TPSYCH 321.
View course details in MyPlan: TPSYCH 455
TPSYCH 471 Applied Issues in Cognition (4-5, max. 10) I&S
Examines cognitive issues in applied settings, such as the workplace and education. Topics include such issues as attention, expertise, problem solving, decision-making, human error, automation, navigation, and individual differences. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in either TPSYCH 209 or TPSYCH 330.
View course details in MyPlan: TPSYCH 471
TPSYCH 496 Psychology Internship (1-5, max. 10) I&S
Allows students to complete an internship with an organization whose mission is related to psychology or other closely related field under faculty supervision.
View course details in MyPlan: TPSYCH 496
TPSYCH 498 Directed Readings in Psychology (1-5, max. 15) I&S
Allows student to engage in independent, in-depth study of any area of psychology or related interdisciplinary area under faculty supervision. Students develop a reading syllabus, discuss the reading with their advisor, and write and revise an APA-style paper analyzing the readings. Offered: AWSpS.
View course details in MyPlan: TPSYCH 498
TPSYCH 499 Undergraduate Psychology Research (1-5, max. 15) I&S
Allows student to conduct independent research in psychology or other closely related field under faculty supervision. Students work on 3-15 hours per week on independent research, meet with their faculty supervisor, and write a paper related to their experience.
View course details in MyPlan: TPSYCH 499
TRELIG 205 Introduction to Religious Studies (5) I&S/VLPA
Introduces students to the 'data,' including objects, places, texts, music, and rituals, foundational for the academic study of religion, beginning with a critical discussion of the problem of defining 'religion'. Recommended that students complete this course before taking TRELIG 305 and TRELIG 321.
View course details in MyPlan: TRELIG 205
TRELIG 235 Religion in the Modern World (5) I&S
Examines intellectual questions raised by thinkers such as Darwin, Marx, and Freud which were complemented by social and political movements to privatize religion. Considers both the intellectual and social transformation of religion in the modern Western milieu. Examines the contrasting situation in less secular non-Western societies.
View course details in MyPlan: TRELIG 235
TRELIG 305 Modern Theories of Religion (5) I&S
Examines intellectual questions raised by thinkers such as Darwin, Marx, and Freud which were complemented by social and political movements to privatize religion. Considers both the intellectual and social transformation of religion in the modern Western milieu. Examines the contrasting situation in less secular non-Western societies.
View course details in MyPlan: TRELIG 305
TRELIG 310 Religious Diversity in America (5) I&S, DIV
Examines the pluralities of religions in modern American, introducing the history, sociology, and beliefs of Buddhists, Christians, and Muslims in the United States. Discusses problems of solutions to human dilemmas, the nature of ultimate reality, and the role of its founder from the perspective of each of these religions.
View course details in MyPlan: TRELIG 310
TRELIG 320 Confucianism and East Asian Modernity (5) I&S
Examines elements of the Confucian tradition which have left a distinctive imprint on the social, political, and economic life of modernized, but not "Westernized," East Asian societies.
View course details in MyPlan: TRELIG 320
TRELIG 321 Comparative Religion (5) I&S
Examines comparative approaches to religious experience and belief with emphasis on conceptual issues such as ritual, symbolism, identity, ecstatic experience, and revitalization movements in the context of globalization. Addresses criteria of both similarity and difference in the comparative work.
View course details in MyPlan: TRELIG 321
TRELIG 333 Buddhist Thought (5) I&S
Explores key teachings of the Buddha. Investigates the "Three Jewels" of the Buddha, the Dharma (the Buddha's teachings), and the Sangha (the Buddhist Community) and applies the teachings to daily life.
View course details in MyPlan: TRELIG 333
TRELIG 345 Christian Thought and Ethical Practice (5) I&S
Provides a systematic introduction to key concepts in Christianity by looking at their application to contemporary ethical problems. Explores these concepts with readings while also providing a platform for thinking about larger themes in ethical and social theory, which are broader interest for those outside of religious studies.
View course details in MyPlan: TRELIG 345
TRELIG 350 Philosophy, Religion, and the Environment (5) I&S/NW
Examines the value of nature and whether it is socially constructed or objectively existing. Considers how our philosophical and religious worldviews affect the way we value ourselves and our environment - including perspective from diverse traditions.
View course details in MyPlan: TRELIG 350
TRELIG 365 Hinduism and Buddhism (5) I&S
Examines Hinduism and Buddhism, two of the world's most ancient religious traditions - both originated in India, and claim well over half a billion followers in the modern world. Presents the radically different (from conventional Western) perspectives they offer on the context and meaning of human existence.
View course details in MyPlan: TRELIG 365
TRELIG 366 Islam (5) I&S
Investigates the history and forms of Islam, the predominant religion of the Middle East. Particular attention devoted to understanding values, views, and assumptions that are often quite different from those familiar in the secular societies of the West.
View course details in MyPlan: TRELIG 366
TRELIG 367 East Asian Religions: Zen and Taoism (5) I&S
Investigates Taoism as a characteristic East Asian world view and of Zen as an East Asian reshaping of Indian Buddhism. Includes readings and discussion of Taoist and Zen materials.
View course details in MyPlan: TRELIG 367
TRELIG 461 Religion and Church in Latin America (5) I&S
Provides an interdisciplinary examination of the political, social, and cultural implications of religion in Latin America. Covers four major themes: the history of the Catholic Church and its influence on politics and socio-economic structures, religious syncretism, liberation theology, and changes occurring in contemporary Latin American Christianity.
View course details in MyPlan: TRELIG 461
TRELIG 463 God: East and West (5) I&S
Investigates both western and eastern approaches to understanding "God" (a personal Supreme Being who created the world) and examines ramifications for the way humans have thought.
View course details in MyPlan: TRELIG 463
TRELIG 465 God and the New Physics (5) I&S
Examines multiple theories and interpretations of physical reality. Explores how new ways of thinking about the world are paralleled by new ways of thinking about God. Examines some new theories and reflects on religious and theological questions.
View course details in MyPlan: TRELIG 465
TRELIG 467 PHILOSOPHY OF RELIGION (5) I&S
Examines selected topics and problems in the philosophy of religion. Focuses on arguments for the existence of God; the problem of evil; atheism; faith; religious experience and revelation; the attributes of God; miracles; immorality; and the relation between religion and morality.
View course details in MyPlan: TRELIG 467
T SOC 165 Introduction to Sociology: Developing the Sociological Imagination (5) I&S, DIV
Surveys social issues such as race, social class, and gender using sociological theories and perspectives. Introduces sociological methods and the relationship between research and public policy. Examines how individuals and organizations have used sociological theories to institute social change.
View course details in MyPlan: T SOC 165
T SOC 265 Race and Ethnicity in the United States (5) I&S, DIV
Introduces issues of race and ethnicity in the United States, particularly the social construction of race, and its effects on policies throughout history. Examines social movements (from the mid-1800s - present) and explores how ideas of racial justice and equality are articulated in relation to economic, political, and cultural contexts.
View course details in MyPlan: T SOC 265
T SOC 270 Introduction to Asian American: Sociological and Interdisciplinary Perspectives (5) I&S, DIV
Introduces Asian American studies from sociological and interdisciplinary perspectives. Critically examines diverse Asian American experiences, nineteenth to twenty-first century, including contemporary issues of race, class, gender, and sexuality; immigration, labor and citizenship; war and colonialism; educational attainment; media, arts and popular culture; family relations; political movements and transnationalism.
View course details in MyPlan: T SOC 270
T SOC 335 Social Class and Inequality (5) I&S, DIV
Examines the problem of persistent urban poverty in the United States. Explores the differential risk of poverty experienced by racial and ethnic groups and by women and children in the context of the major theories of class stratification. Also discusses the factors that lead to extreme-poverty neighborhoods, how these environments affect the life chances of residents, survival strategies of the poor, and public policy implications.
View course details in MyPlan: T SOC 335
T SOC 346 The History of Childhood and the Family in the United States (5) I&S
Examines changing experiences and forms of childhood and family life over the course of U.S. history. Relates those experiences and forms to their political and economic contexts, considers explanations for historical alterations, and explores social and ideological implications of contemporary childhood and family life as mediated by class and ethnicity.
View course details in MyPlan: T SOC 346
T SOC 369 Diversity in Adulthood (5) I&S
Assesses the diversity of personal styles within the class (emotional patterns, personality, learning, and behavior) using various psychological instruments that identify patterns or styles. Utilizes individual differences illustrate problems of communication and conflict resolution between persons of different styles, backgrounds, and worldviews.
View course details in MyPlan: T SOC 369
T SOC 432 Schooling in the United States (5) I&S
Explores the history of formal education in the U.S. with special consideration of the forms and content of schooling for working people, women, and minority populations. Examines specific forms of schooling, educational reform, changes in pedagogy and structure, and the relationships between schooling and other features of the historical landscape.
View course details in MyPlan: T SOC 432
T SOC 433 Household and Family in Comparative Perspective (5) I&S
Explores cross-cultural changes and continuities in family life and household organization in selected societies. Examines creation of various family and household forms and their relation to wide-scale economic, political, and social change. Studies the impact of power relations (gender, generation, class, ethnicity/race, etc.) within and beyond the family.
View course details in MyPlan: T SOC 433
T SOC 434 Women, Race, and Class: Identity and Intergroup Relations (5) I&S, DIV
Explores interlocking effects of race, ethnicity, class, gender, and sexuality on the life experiences of women in the U.S. Includes: impact of race, ethnicity, and racism on social institutions; women's experiences of racism; struggles of anti-racist women; relationship between racial, class, and sexual identities and feminism, development of dialogue and coalitions between women.
View course details in MyPlan: T SOC 434
T SOC 436 History of Social Welfare Policy in the United States (5) I&S
Explores welfare policy in the United States from the colonial era to the present. Covers history of individual and governmental relief efforts; changing definitions of the poor and poverty; and the origins of our current welfare system.
View course details in MyPlan: T SOC 436
T SOC 437 Immigration Today (5) I&S
Examines changing causes and patterns of post-1965 immigration from global and interdisciplinary perspectives. Topics may include: role of immigrants in changing global economy; interactions between immigrants and residents in communities, schools, workplaces; challenges of adaptation for immigrant children; new forms of citizenship and national identity. Compares Europe and United States.
View course details in MyPlan: T SOC 437
T SOC 439 Fieldwork and Interviewing in Communities (5) I&S
Assists students in developing skills as qualitative researchers in communities, particularly fieldwork and in-depth interviewing. Explores theoretical, ethical, and methodological dimensions. Includes reading and discussing examples of fieldwork and carrying out students' own projects in the field.
View course details in MyPlan: T SOC 439
T SOC 446 Family Relationships and Diverse Family Forms in the United States (5) I&S
Explores cross-cultural changes and continuities in family life and household organization in selected societies. Explores development of family and household forms and their relation to wide-scale economic, political, and social change. Studies impact of power relations within and beyond the family.
View course details in MyPlan: T SOC 446
T SOC 447 AIDS and American Society (5) I&S
Examines the impact of the AIDS epidemic on American society, including the lives of persons with AIDS and people who are HIV-positive; the gay community, minority communities, and the American public, more broadly; Americans' concepts of health, illness, and sexuality; and the medical care system and public-health policy. Offered at Olympic Community College/Bremerton.
View course details in MyPlan: T SOC 447
T SOC 455 The Sociology of Gender (5) I&S, DIV
Explores biological and social bases of gender differences; ways in which changing social definitions of womanhood and manhood affect self-perceptions, opportunities, and behaviors. Examines social movements and theories which challenge traditional roles of men and women in U.S. society, and those which question the benefits of liberation.
View course details in MyPlan: T SOC 455
T SOC 456 Rural Societies and Development (5) I&S
Explores Third World development issues (economic, political, and social) which are particular to rural societies. Addresses topics such as: food production and distribution, rural labor markets, migration, rural development strategies, rural poverty, the "Green Revolution," export agriculture, the proletarianization of peasants, and rural politics.
View course details in MyPlan: T SOC 456
T SOC 460 Demographic Methods: Analyzing Race, Class, and Gender (5) I&S, DIV
Provides students with an understanding of how, when, and why descriptive statistics are generated. Students generate, collect, analyze, and critically assess description statistics, particularly demographic data on race, class, and gender.
View course details in MyPlan: T SOC 460
T SOC 470 Qualitative Research: Inquiry and Methods (5)
Provides students with an understanding of how, when, and the reason why qualitative research is conducted. Covers common techniques used to conduct fieldwork.
View course details in MyPlan: T SOC 470
T SOC 534 Women, Race, and Class: Identity and Intergroup Relations (5)
Explores interlocking effects of race, ethnicity, class, gender, and sexuality on public policy and the life experiences of women around the world. Includes: impact of race, ethnicity, and racism on social institutions; women's experiences of racism; struggles of anti-racist women; and development of dialogue and coalitions between women.
View course details in MyPlan: T SOC 534
T SOC 555 Sociology of Gender (5)
Explores biological and social bases of gender differences; ways in which changing social definitions of womanhood and manhood affect self-perceptions, opportunities, and behaviors. Examines social movements and theories which challenge traditional roles of men and women in U.S. society, and those which question the benefits of liberation.
View course details in MyPlan: T SOC 555
T SOC 560 Demographic Methods: Analyzing Race, Class, and Gender (5)
Provides students with an understanding of how, when, and why descriptive statistics are generated. Students generate, collect, analyze, and critically assess description statistics, particularly demographic data on race, class, and gender.
View course details in MyPlan: T SOC 560
T SOC 570 Qualitative Research: Inquiry and Methods (5)
Provides students with an understanding of how, when, and the reason why qualitative research is conducted. Covers common techniques used to conduct fieldwork.
View course details in MyPlan: T SOC 570
TSPAN 101 Elementary Spanish (5)
Stresses communicative approach to language for students with no previous knowledge of Spanish or score of less than 176 on UWT placement test.
View course details in MyPlan: TSPAN 101
TSPAN 102 Elementary Spanish (5)
Continues TSPAN 101. Stresses communicative approach to language. Prerequisite: either TSPAN 101, TSPAN 121, or score of 176-225 on UWT placement test.
View course details in MyPlan: TSPAN 102
TSPAN 103 Elementary Spanish (5)
Continues TSPAN 102. Stresses communicative approach to language. Prerequisite: either TSPAN 102, TSPAN 110, TSPAN 122, or score of 226-275 on UWT placement test.
View course details in MyPlan: TSPAN 103
TSPAN 110 Elementary Spanish Review (5)
Combines and reviews material covered in TSPAN 101-TSPAN 102 to prepare student to enter TSPAN 103. Cannot be taken in addition to TSPAN 101-TSPAN 102, TSPAN 121, or TSPAN 122. Prerequisite: score of 100-175 on UWT placement test.
View course details in MyPlan: TSPAN 110
TSPAN 121 Spanish Immersion (5)
Covers the equivalent of elementary Spanish (SPAN 101, 102, 103) through an alternative "planned immersion" method with video as the central medium of presentation. Prerequisite: score of 0-15 on SP100A placement test if Spanish is language of admission.
View course details in MyPlan: TSPAN 121
TSPAN 122 Spanish Immersion (5)
Covers the equivalent of elementary Spanish (SPAN 101, 102, 103) through an alternative "planned immersion" method with video as the central medium of presentation. Prerequisite: TSPAN 121.
View course details in MyPlan: TSPAN 122
TSPAN 123 Spanish Immersion (5)
Covers the equivalent of elementary Spanish (SPAN 101, 102, 103) through an alternative "planned immersion" method with video as the central medium of presentation. Prerequisite: TSPAN 122.
View course details in MyPlan: TSPAN 123
TSPAN 134 Intensive First-Year Spanish (15)
Equivalent of 121, 122, 123. Employs "planned immersion" method with video as the central medium of presentation. Not open for credit to students who have taken 121, 122, 123 or 102, 103.
View course details in MyPlan: TSPAN 134
TSPAN 199 Foreign Study - Elementary (2-16, max. 16)
Elementary instruction in approved foreign study program. Students who wish to satisfy foreign language proficiency requirement must see the departmental adviser and may be required to take additional courses through 103.
View course details in MyPlan: TSPAN 199
TSPAN 201 Intermediate (5) VLPA
Intensive practice in speaking, reading, and writing. Review of Spanish grammar. Oral practice based on literary and cultural readings. Prerequisite: either TSPAN 103, TSPAN 123, TSPAN 134, score of 70-100 on SP100A placement test, minimum score of 51 on SP TL placement test, or score of 0-75 on SP200A placement test.
View course details in MyPlan: TSPAN 201
TSPAN 202 Intermediate (5) VLPA
Intensive practice in speaking, reading, and writing. Review of Spanish grammar. Oral practice based on literary and cultural readings. Prerequisite: either TSPAN 201 or score of 76-145 on SP200A placement test.
View course details in MyPlan: TSPAN 202
TSPAN 203 Intermediate (5) VLPA
Intensive practice in speaking, reading, and writing. Review of Spanish grammar. Oral practice based on literary and cultural readings. Prerequisite: either TSPAN 202, TSPAN 210, or score of 146-165 on SP200A placement test.
View course details in MyPlan: TSPAN 203
TSPAN 210 Accelerated Intermediate Spanish (5) VLPA
Merges SPAN 201 and SPAN 202. Designed to build listening, speaking, reading, and writing skills and to expand knowledge of culture and literature of the Spanish-speaking world. Combines classroom experience with accelerated Web-enhanced activities provided through Spain's Instituto Cervantes. Prerequisite: either TSPAN 103, TSPAN 123, or TSPAN 134
View course details in MyPlan: TSPAN 210
TSPAN 299 Foreign Study - Intermediate (2-16, max. 16) VLPA
Intermediate instruction in approved foreign study program. Further study at 200 level subject to placement test score.
View course details in MyPlan: TSPAN 299
TSPAN 301 Spanish Grammar and Lexicon (5, max. 10) VLPA
Reviews Spanish grammar structures and vocabulary to develop students' capacity to understand and express themselves in Spanish with more accuracy. Helps students master concepts required for advance reading, writing, and oral proficiency. Prerequisite: either TSPAN 203, TSPAN 299, 5 credits of a TSPAN 300-level or higher course, or score of 166-175 on SP200A placement test.
View course details in MyPlan: TSPAN 301
TSPAN 302 Spanish Conversation (5, max. 10) VLPA
Emphasizes oral proficiency and listening comprehension using film, television, music, journalistic, and literary texts as a way to understand linguistic and cultural diversity within the Spanish-speaking world. Prerequisite: either TSPAN 203, TSPAN 299, 5 credits of a TSPAN 300-level or higher course, or score of 166-175 on SP200A placement test.
View course details in MyPlan: TSPAN 302
TSPAN 303 Spanish Stylistics and Composition (5, max. 10) VLPA
Develops writing skills for a wide variety of purposes, with activities to build vocabulary and strengthen knowledge of grammar. Includes pre-writing exercises, peer-editing and revision of texts, plus introduction to translation. Prerequisite: either TSPAN 203, TSPAN 299, 5 credits of a TSPAN 300-level or higher course, or score of 166-175 on SP200A placement test.
View course details in MyPlan: TSPAN 303
TSPAN 315 Business Communication in Spanish (5) VLPA
Develops Spanish language skills (reading, writing, speaking, and listening) within the contest of the Spanish-speaking business world. Emphasizes business-specific culture and concepts. Prerequisite: minimum of 5 credits of Spanish language at the 300-level or higher.
View course details in MyPlan: TSPAN 315
TSPAN 335 Hispanic Linguistics (5) VLPA
Focuses on factors that affect the Spanish language (including phonetics, phonology, morphology, syntax, semantics, and pragmatics); the history of the Spanish language; as well as social factors that contribute to dialectical variation among Spanish speakers. Taught in Spanish. Prerequisite: 5 credits of 300-level or higher TSPAN coursework.
View course details in MyPlan: TSPAN 335
TSPAN 345 Spanish for Community Engagement (5) I&S, DIV
Explores issues impacting Latino/a communities in Tacoma and beyond, while enabling students to use and improve Spanish language skills in practical contexts. In Spanish and requires 16 hours of community engagement with a local organization. Prerequisite: 5 credits of Spanish language at 300 level or higher.
View course details in MyPlan: TSPAN 345
TSPAN 348 Writing and the Research Process (5) VLPA
Offers students the opportunity to develop their Spanish-language writing, speaking, reading, and listening skills while also learning how to carry out different kinds of research, design research projects, and produce a variety of written texts. Prerequisite: minimum of 5 credits of Spanish language at 300-level or higher.
View course details in MyPlan: TSPAN 348
TSPAN 351 Introduction to Hispanic Literary Studies (5) VLPA
Introduces techniques of literary analysis, as applied to examples of narrative, poetry, and theater from Spain, Spanish American, and U.S. Latino culture. Taught in Spanish. Prerequisite: one TSPAN 300-level course.
View course details in MyPlan: TSPAN 351
TSPAN 352 Introduction to Hispanic Cultural Studies (5) VLPA
Acquaints students with different approaches to cultural studies, using key notions of elite, mass and folk culture of Spanish-speaking societies and examples. Topics include globalization/ modernization vs. tradition; transculturation vs. assimilation; community; family and tradition; gender and race; class. Taught in Spanish. Prerequisite: one 300-level Spanish language class.
View course details in MyPlan: TSPAN 352
TSPAN 374 Hispanic Culture Through Film (5) VLPA
Introduces students to the cinema of the Spanish-speaking world and explores films within various national contexts. Explores issues related to politics, social change, gender, class, and ethnicity. Taught in Spanish. Prerequisite: either TSPAN 351 or T SPAN 352.
View course details in MyPlan: TSPAN 374
TSPAN 376 Hispanic Film Directors (5) I&S
Examines cultural and aesthetic issues related to specific Hispanic film directors. Explores issues of cultural identity as it relates to gender, race, and socio-economic status. Taught in Spanish. Prerequisite: either TSPAN 351 or TSPAN 352.
View course details in MyPlan: TSPAN 376
TSPAN 388 Contemporary United States Latina/o Literature (5) VLPA, DIV
Focuses on contemporary literature by U.S.-based Chicana/o, Puerto Rican, Cuban American, and Dominican American authors from the 1960s to the present with attention to hybrid culture(s), identity, social justice, language, and socio-cultural circumstances to understand literary expression in relation to Latina/o histories. Taught in Spanish. Prerequisite: TSPAN 351.
View course details in MyPlan: TSPAN 388
TSPAN 393 Foreign Study (2-10, max. 20) VLPA
Study in Spanish speaking country outside the standard Spanish curriculum of the University of Washington. Prerequisite: 5 credits of 300-level or higher TSPAN coursework.
View course details in MyPlan: TSPAN 393
TSPAN 420 Advanced Spanish Grammar (5) VLPA
Acquaints students with more complex grammatical structures, with attention to idiomatic language uses and structures. Taught in Spanish. Prerequisite: minimum of 10 credits of upper-division Spanish language.
View course details in MyPlan: TSPAN 420
TSPAN 425 Advanced Communication Skills (5) VLPA
Promotes higher level proficiency in spoken and written Spanish. Examines regional differences, formal and informal styles of communication, cultural notions related to specific speech patterns, and social interactions. Develops idiomatic knowledge of the language. Taught in Spanish. Prerequisite: minimum of 10 credits of Spanish language at the 300-level or higher.
View course details in MyPlan: TSPAN 425
TSPAN 430 Translation Techniques and Practices (5) VLPA
Focuses on theory, practice, and mechanics of translation of a wide variety of texts, literary, and non-literary. Prerequisite: minimum of 10 credits of upper-division Spanish language.
View course details in MyPlan: TSPAN 430
TSPAN 451 Hispanic Women Writers (5) VLPA
Analyzes novels, short stories, poetry, testimony, drama, and essays by contemporary Hispanic women writers. Includes themes such as dictatorship, political and sexual repression, gender constructions, colonialism, racism, class issues, etc. Taught in Spanish. Prerequisite: TSPAN 351; TSPAN 352: minimum of 10 additional credits of Spanish language at the 300-level or higher.
View course details in MyPlan: TSPAN 451
TSPAN 461 Mexican Film (5) VLPA
Familiarizes students with important trends in cinema and culture in Mexico through the analysis and study of representative films, directors, and cultural movements. Taught in Spanish. Prerequisite: T SPAN 351; T SPAN 352; 10 additional credits of T SPAN courses at the 300-level.
View course details in MyPlan: TSPAN 461
TSPAN 464 Mexican Literature and Culture (5) VLPA
Analyzes significant trends in Mexican culture through literature and other forms of cultural production, including art, music, folklore, and film/television/print media. Taught in Spanish. Prerequisite: T SPAN 351; T SPAN 352; 10 additional credits of T SPAN courses at the 300-level.
View course details in MyPlan: TSPAN 464
TSPAN 471 The Hispanic Caribbean (5) VLPA
Analyzes significant trends in the Hispanic Caribbean through literature and other forms of cultural production, including art, music, folklore, and film. Taught in Spanish. Prerequisite: T SPAN 351; T SPAN 352; 10 additional credits of upper-division T SPAN courses.
View course details in MyPlan: TSPAN 471
TSPAN 480 Contemporary Spanish Culture (5) VLPA
Analyzes significant historical, social, and political events in contemporary Spain through literature and other forms of cultural production, including art, music, dance, and film. Taught in Spanish. Cannot be taken for credit if credit earned in T HISP 490. Prerequisite: TSPAN 351; TSPAN 352: minimum of 10 additional credits of Spanish language at the 300-level or higher.
View course details in MyPlan: TSPAN 480
TSPAN 496 Experiential Learning in Spanish (1-10, max. 10)
Engages students in an individualized project that combines academic and work experience in the local Spanish-speaking community. Supplements and enhances formal in-class language training. Taught in Spanish. Prerequisite: TSPAN 301; TSPAN 302; TSPAN 303; TSPAN 351; TSPAN 352. Credit/no-credit only.
View course details in MyPlan: TSPAN 496
T UNIV 101 Introduction to Interdisciplinary Study (2)
Credit/no-credit only.
View course details in MyPlan: T UNIV 101
T UNIV 110 Introduction to Educational Equity and College Access (2)
Focuses on issues of educational inequity and college access. Prepares students to work with youth by critically examining the educational and psychological literature on first-generation college students. Offered: jointly with T CORE 110; AWSp.
View course details in MyPlan: T UNIV 110
T UNIV 200 The Social-Digital: Tools and Activism for the 21st Century (2) C. CARMEAN
This course explores technologies of political and social change. The course examines crowd-sourced actions of micro-lending and internet petitions, as well as collectives that operate via the dark web. The student will learn to create online identities as well as articulate the power of social tools for professional good. Offered: AWSp.
View course details in MyPlan: T UNIV 200
T UNIV 250 Husky Success Quest (2)
Students discover their talents, define their own unique paths, and learn how to develop and apply their strengths for academic, personal, and professional success. Engages in an exploration of purpose and perspective through the Roadtrip Nation Experience and the StrengthsQuest assessment.
View course details in MyPlan: T UNIV 250
T WOMN 101 Introduction to Women's Studies (5) I&S
Surveys the roles and status of women in the US; the process of gender socialization; the intersection of gender with identities such as race, class, and sexual orientation; the history and experience of women; and feminist theory and practice.
View course details in MyPlan: T WOMN 101
T WOMN 205 Introduction to Masculinities (5) I&S
Examines the key concepts of masculinities studies, analyzes the roles that men adopt, and explores how these roles are implicated in the development of male identity. Also explores the diversity of masculinities within American society.
View course details in MyPlan: T WOMN 205
T WOMN 250 Seminar in Service Learning: A Feminist Approach (5) I&S
Introduces students to a variety of different Tacoma agencies and requires them to participate in service projects that connect feminist theory to work being done in the community by local organizations. Uses blogs, wikis, and other new media to facilitate online reflection and class discussion.
View course details in MyPlan: T WOMN 250
T WOMN 251 Popular Culture and Gender (5) I&S, DIV
Introduces the ways in which masculinity and femininity are produced through popular culture. Analyzes cultural product such as movies, advertisements, images, books, toys, etc. to understand how gender is constructed, how these constructions become cultural norms, and how these popular assumptions about gender impact our own lives.
View course details in MyPlan: T WOMN 251
T WOMN 302 Research Methods in Women Studies (5) I&S
Explores appropriate research methodologies for interdisciplinary work in women studies. Examines current debates and issues in feminist methodologies and critiques of methodology. Use of historical documents and theoretical texts. Computer applications in research in women studies.
View course details in MyPlan: T WOMN 302
T WOMN 345 Women and Work in the United States (5) I&S
Studies the fundamental changes and continuities in women's work lives in the context of U.S. economic development. Examines multiplicity and diversity of women's work contributions, both paid and unpaid. Highlights both the commonalties among women's work experiences and the differences with regard to life-cycle stage, occupation, and race/ethnicity.
View course details in MyPlan: T WOMN 345
T WOMN 347 History of Women in the United States (5) I&S
Surveys the history of women in the United States from the 1600s to the present. Explores social, political, and economic forces that have shaped women's lives, and the diversity of women's experiences rooted in class, race, and ethnicity. Considers the contributions of women's history to the larger discipline of history.
View course details in MyPlan: T WOMN 347
T WOMN 420 Women in the Global Economy (5) I&S
Explores impact of "modernization" and "development" on status and roles of women in selected Western and non-Western societies. Critical analysis of assumptions about women's responses to social change which have guided research, development planning. Examines cultural practices, economic arrangements, government policies to understand opportunities and obstacles confronting women in developing countries today.
View course details in MyPlan: T WOMN 420
T WOMN 434 Women's Voices: Transational Testimonials (5) I&S
Explores the "testimonials" of women from selected regions in Africa, the Middle East, and Latin America. Examines women's voices in testimonial, autobiographical, biographical, ethnographic, and fictional literature. Discusses historical and sociological significance of women's '"testimonials'. Explores issues of race/ethnicity, class, and gender.
View course details in MyPlan: T WOMN 434
T WOMN 455 Contemporary Theories in Gender and Sexuality Studies (5) I&S
Examines contemporary and influential theories in gender-sexuality studies. Delves into feminist theory and the production of knowledge to consider the history of different schools of thought including emergent theories to challenge prevailing ways of thinking and theorizing gender studies and consider its political, social, and cultural legacies. Recommended: TWOMN 101.
View course details in MyPlan: T WOMN 455
TWRT 101 Writing Ready (2)
Provides a foundation in college-level writing before enrolling in Introduction to Academic Writing and the first-year program. Introduces reading and composing skills needed for successful writing in academic settings, including close readings, critical thinking, and writing in response to others' ideas.
View course details in MyPlan: TWRT 101
TWRT 111 Discourse Foundations (2, max. 8)
Helps improve academic writing skills by focusing on students' own writing practices. Teaches reading skills to comprehend and analyze complex texts, review and analyze grammar structures as they appear in academic writing, and build advanced vocabulary. Prerequisite: either TWRT 120 or TWRT 121, which must be taken concurrently . Credit/no-credit only.
View course details in MyPlan: TWRT 111
TWRT 112 Introduction to Academic Writing (5) C
Continues introduction to the principles of argument, including critical thinking, analytical reading skills, and research and writing skills needed for academic writing. Also covers skills for managing the writing process and how to transfer learning to other disciplinary contexts of writing.
View course details in MyPlan: TWRT 112
TWRT 120 Academic Writing I (5)
Introduces principles of argument, critical thinking, reflection, analytical reading, writing, and research practices needed for academic writing. Covers skills for managing the writing process and how to transfer learning to other disciplinary contexts for writing as part of first of a two-course sequence. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AW.
View course details in MyPlan: TWRT 120
TWRT 121 Academic Writing II (5) C
Reinforces and engages more deeply with principles of argument, critical thinking, reflection, analytical reading, writhing, and research practices needed for academic writhing. Coves skills for managing the writing process and how to transfer learning to other disciplinary contexts for writing as second part of a two-course sequence. Prerequisite: TWRT 120. Offered: WSp.
View course details in MyPlan: TWRT 121
TWRT 200 Introduction to Creative Writing (5) VLPA
Introduces several genres and explores the creative writing process and terminology of imaginative expression.
View course details in MyPlan: TWRT 200
TWRT 211 Argument and Research in Writing (5) C
Focuses on writing critical analyses of texts in the arts and sciences. Emphasizes close reading, critical thinking, and developing well-supported arguments as well as advanced library research skills. Stresses managing the writing process so that good work can be produced within given time constraints. Prepares students for upper-division writing tasks. Prerequisite: minimum 2.0 grade in either TWRT 112, TWRT 121, T CORE 101, or ENGL 131.
View course details in MyPlan: TWRT 211
TWRT 291 Technical Communication in the Workplace (5) C
Teaches objective-oriented and audience-centered communication for the workplace, while focusing on key genres of technical communication - reports, proposals, manual, and document design - essential for success in the professional world. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in either T CORE 101, TWRT 112, TWRT 121, or TWRT 211.
View course details in MyPlan: TWRT 291
TWRT 311 Writing Center Theory and Practice (2, max. 6) VLPA
Investigates current theories and practices of writing pedagogy, emphasizing the pedagogical assumptions of individual instruction. Students learn to respond constructively to writers and to texts. They also gain expertise as writers and teachers. Required for students who wish to work in the Writing Center. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in TWRT 112, TWRT 121, or T CORE 101.
View course details in MyPlan: TWRT 311
TWRT 330 Written and Visual Rhetoric (5) VLPA
Explores the principles and practices of written and visual rhetoric to learn to employ both effectively in print-based and electronic texts. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in TWRT 211.
View course details in MyPlan: TWRT 330
TWRT 331 Writing in the Natural Sciences (5) VLPA, C
Studies communications and rhetorical principles for sharing scientific knowledge in professional meetings with other scientists and with general audiences. Focuses on three most common genes: scientific paper (including literature review and abstract writing), research proposal, and scientific poster. Prerequisite: a minimum grade 2.0 in either TWRT 211 or TWRT 291.
View course details in MyPlan: TWRT 331
TWRT 333 Writing through Comics (5)
Introduces a critical perspective on comics and builds skills in creative writing and rhetoric studies. Focuses on theory and craft, providing a lens for interpretation and application, employing workshops for students to create (and revise) their own comics. Prerequisite: minimum 2.0 grade in either T CORE 101, TWRT 112, TWRT 211 or ENGL 131.
View course details in MyPlan: TWRT 333
TWRT 350 Principles of User Centered Design (5) I&S
Explores the philosophy and process for developing solutions to design problems, including technical systems such as software applications and communication projects such as websites. Develops skills to identify and solve design problems through research, testing, and analysis.
View course details in MyPlan: TWRT 350
TWRT 355 Usability Testing and Research (5) I&S
Explores the concept of usability and research methods related to the evaluation of information and communication products as part of the user-centered design process. Develops skills to design and conduct usability studies, analyze results, and make recommendations. Prerequisite: TWRT 291.
View course details in MyPlan: TWRT 355
TWRT 360 PLAYWRITING (5) VLPA
Introduces foundational skills in playwriting and writing for the stage including reading of scripts and analyses of produced plays to develop awareness of the playwright's process and position in theater productions. Employs workshops to provide feedback on drafts as students write and refine scripts.
View course details in MyPlan: TWRT 360
TWRT 365 Literary Editing and Publishing (5) VLPA
Explores practices of literary editing, magazine design, and literary small press publishing. Readings examine history, aesthetics, funding, promotion, layout, and other issues faced by literary journals in print and in emerging online media. Student assignments reflect practices of literary editors. Credit/no-credit only.
View course details in MyPlan: TWRT 365
TWRT 370 Poetry Writing (5) VLPA
Introduces students to the craft and process of poetry writing from initial draft to advanced revision. Explores current writing styles, poetic forms, and various aesthetic issues. Students discuss craft, assigned writings, and share work with other class members.
View course details in MyPlan: TWRT 370
TWRT 372 Writing Eco-Poetry (5) VLPA
Introduces the practice of poetry writing within the context of nature and eco-writing. Develops skills to read, analyze, and respond to seminal works of nature poems, eco-poems, and critical essays from Romanticism to contemporary poetry, then create, workshop, and revise original nature and eco-poems.
View course details in MyPlan: TWRT 372
TWRT 380 Introduction to Fiction Writing (5) VLPA
Introduces the process and techniques of fiction writing. Readings familiarize students with various writing styles and strategies of other writers. Students discuss craft, the assigned readings, and share work with other class members.
View course details in MyPlan: TWRT 380
TWRT 382 WRITING POPULAR FICTION (5) VLPA
Teaches students to write popular fiction. Explores questions of narrative, characterization, action, form, formula, and code in popular genres. Uses primary and secondary texts to study mystery, romance, spy thriller, western, horror, and science fiction. Emphasizes peer review, revision, assessment, and reflection as methods of producing excellent written work.
View course details in MyPlan: TWRT 382
TWRT 387 Creative Nonfiction Writing (5) VLPA
Builds narrative and descriptive skills in several genres of creative nonfiction, including the personal essay, feature articles for general trade magazines, or the literary essay. Includes reading of models and writers' workshops to provide feedback on drafts.
View course details in MyPlan: TWRT 387
TWRT 389 Nature Writing (5) VLPA
Introduces students to the skills of creative non-fiction writing within the context of nature and environmental writing. Students read, analyze, and respond to seminal works of nature essays and environmental essays, as well as eco-critical writing, then create, workshop, and revise their own original nature and environmental essays.
View course details in MyPlan: TWRT 389
TWRT 431 Writing for Social Change (5) VLPA, C
Analysis and development of texts designed to influence public opinion and advocate for social causes. Includes volunteer work in a nonprofit agency and writing for that agency.
View course details in MyPlan: TWRT 431
TWRT 440 Cross-Cultural Communication Design (5) I&S
Examines issues that affect communication from global and local perspectives including the role culture and technology play in human interactions. Discusses the research and practices that writers and designers need to consider when internationalizing and localizing information products. Explores techniques and skills to develop effective communication products.
View course details in MyPlan: TWRT 440
TWRT 450 Principles of Accessible Design (5) I&S
Explores accessibility barriers, standards, and guidelines for designing products and processes such as self-service kiosks and websites. Develops skills to solve accessibility problems through video ethnographies of barriers, apply automated and adaptive technology tools for testing and analyze data for devising solutions. Prerequisite: either TWRT 291, TWRT 350, TWRT 355, TWRT 440, TCOM 320, or TCOM 420.
View course details in MyPlan: TWRT 450
TWRT 464 Teaching Writing (5) VLPA
Studies theories and practices of writing education and the history and challenges of writing assessment. Explores learning communities. Emphasizes pedagogical questions of social class, ethnicity, multilingualism, gender, sexual orientation, disability, and nationality. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in either TCXG 272, TWRT 211, or TWRT 272.
View course details in MyPlan: TWRT 464
TWRT 470 Advanced Poetry Writing (5, max. 10) VLPA
Builds upon foundational skills in writing both traditional and contemporary poetry. Includes reading of models and writers' workshops to provide feedback on drafts. Students develop a portfolio of polished writing by the end of the course. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in TWRT 370.
View course details in MyPlan: TWRT 470
TWRT 480 Advanced Fiction Writing (5, max. 10) VLPA
Builds upon foundational skills in fiction writing such as dialog, narration, theme, language, and character. Includes reading of models and writers' workshops to provide feedback on drafts. Students develop a portfolio of polished writing by the end of the course. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in either TWRT 380 or TWRT 382.
View course details in MyPlan: TWRT 480
TWRT 482 WRITING HISTORICAL FICTION (5) VLPA
Builds upon foundations skills in fiction writing and introduces elements essential to writing historical fiction, including research. Includes readings from creative and historical texts and employs workshops to provide feedback on drafts as students write and revise their own short stories. Prerequisite: either TWRT 200, TWRT 380, or TWRT 382.
View course details in MyPlan: TWRT 482
TWRT 487 Advanced Creative Nonfiction (5, max. 10) VLPA
Builds on beginning creative nonfiction skills in several genres: personal or lyric essay, literary journalism, the nonfiction "short", or prose poetry. Includes reading of models and writers' workshops to provide feedback on drafts. Students develop a portfolio of polished writing by the end of the course. Prerequisite: TWRT 387.
View course details in MyPlan: TWRT 487
TWRT 499 Advanced Topics in Creative Writing (1-5, max. 15) VLPA
Builds on beginning creative writing skills. Includes reading of models and writers' workshops to provide feedback on drafts. Students work on developing a portfolio of published writing.
View course details in MyPlan: TWRT 499
T HLTH 290 Special Topics in the Foundations of Health (3-5, max. 10)
Explores current topics in health and describes factors contributing to selected health problems and steps to maintain health.
View course details in MyPlan: T HLTH 290
T HLTH 305 Statistics: Learning from Data (5) NW, QSR
Examines concepts and practice of statistics in health and social sciences. Emphasizes applications in the three major areas of statistical practice: data analysis, organizing and describing data; data production, sampling, and design; and statistical inference, drawing conclusions. Uses working with genuine data to enhance abilities to actively apply statistical concepts. Prerequisite: TMATH 098.
View course details in MyPlan: T HLTH 305
T HLTH 310 Health, Illness, and Society (5) I&S, DIV
Introduction to societal factors influencing health both locally and globally, utilizing perspectives from diverse disciplines. Examines topics such as the social construction of health and illness, the meaning of health and illness in cultural context, the social determinants of health, and issues in health care delivery and access.
View course details in MyPlan: T HLTH 310
T HLTH 320 Promoting Health Through Social Marketing (5) I&S
Examines strategies to promote health both locally and globally. Covers social marketing principles. Applies a range of social marketing techniques to develop a campaign to promote health at a population level.
View course details in MyPlan: T HLTH 320
T HLTH 325 Medical and Ethical Issues in Literature and Culture (5) VLPA
Examines various medical and bioethical issues through the lens of literature. Explores the role of technology, illness and culture, and end-of-live issues. Offered: jointly with T LIT 325.
View course details in MyPlan: T HLTH 325
T HLTH 330 Representations of Adolescents in Film (5) VLPA
Interprets and critiques images of adolescent issues in film; compares images, sounds, settings, and plot of film; promotes willingness to investigate commonplace assumptions versus evidence of health risks portrayed cinematically.
View course details in MyPlan: T HLTH 330
T HLTH 355 HIV/AIDS: Global and National Issues (5) I&S
Examines historical and contemporary issues related to HIV/AIDS from local, national, and global perspectives. Focuses on HIV/AIDS among vulnerable populations worldwide, prevention efforts, history of the pandemic, treatment protocols and advances, and psychological impacts on both infected and affected individuals. Cannot be taken for credit if credit earned in TSOCWF 355.
View course details in MyPlan: T HLTH 355
T HLTH 372 Environmental Health: Local to Global (5) I&S
Examines environmental factors that influence human health including physical, social, cultural, economic, and political factors. Address environmental factors at home (lead, radon) in work settings (occupational health and safety), the community (pesticides, air pollution), and in the global context (population dynamics, global warming).
View course details in MyPlan: T HLTH 372
T HLTH 410 Environmental Equity (5) I&S
Explores relationships between environmental issues and people of color and low-income communities from both local and global perspectives. Emphasizes issues of race/ethnicity, socioeconomic status, and policy and politics in environmental equity. Offered: jointly with T URB 410.
View course details in MyPlan: T HLTH 410
T HLTH 415 Representations of Health Policy and Ethics in Film (5) VLPA
Examines contemporary conflicts about health and health care using films. Films used as a means of displaying and exploring the competing images of bodies, policies, workers, and institutions used to frame and personify these debates. Films supplemented by readings in film analysis, literature, narrative ethics, and health policy.
View course details in MyPlan: T HLTH 415
T HLTH 420 Holistic Health (5)
Examines the economic, social and cultural conditions that support the growth of holistic nursing. Discusses relevant research and practice issues of selected methods of complementary/alternative healing.
View course details in MyPlan: T HLTH 420
T HLTH 425 Violence in Intimate Partner Relationships (5) I&S
Examines partner violence as a cumulative interactive experience that must be framed within historical and social contexts. Emphasizes current literature on conceptualizing gendered violence, theoretical perspectives of abuse in intimate relationships.
View course details in MyPlan: T HLTH 425
T HLTH 430 Adolescent Health in Context (5) I&S
Provides an overview of adolescent health in the United States and examines current issues in adolescent health research. Addresses a matrix of adolescent health contexts such as historical constructions of adolescence, politics, race/ethnicity, class, gender, culture, sexuality, school, neighborhood, family, and peer groups.
View course details in MyPlan: T HLTH 430
T HLTH 435 Women's Health, Women's Lives (5) I&S
Examines sociocultural, economic, and political influences on women and their health. Discusses issues relevant to women and health across the life span from an historic, contemporary, and futuristic perspective. Focuses on social roles central to women's lives, transitions, identity and gender inequities and their impact on women's health.
View course details in MyPlan: T HLTH 435
T HLTH 440 Business of Health Care (5)
Explores the forces driving the changes in the evolving U.S. healthcare system to include resource allocation and cost-containment strategies. Emphasizes the examination of key economic concepts, e.g., outputs, supply, demand, and markets as they relate to the healthcare industry.
View course details in MyPlan: T HLTH 440
T HLTH 450 Perspectives in Medical Anthropology (5) VLPA/I&S
Examines the relationship between society, illness, and healing by applying theoretical perspectives used by medical anthropologists. While using examples from other cultures, focuses on an understanding of Western society through a comparative approach to the symbolic, social, and political construction of the body in illness and health.
View course details in MyPlan: T HLTH 450
T HLTH 455 Knowing Health and Illness Through The Arts (5) VLPA
Analyzes how life, health, and wellness, as well as illness, suffering, and death are depicted in literature, poetry, music, photography, and sculpture. Examines how the power of the aesthetic experience of the arts facilitates the cultural understandings of health and illness.
View course details in MyPlan: T HLTH 455
T HLTH 460 Strategies for Community Change (5) I&S
Explore the issues of social justice and consider the intersection between traditions of community activism and community experience. Examine community organizing theory to explore how people change communities to support health.
View course details in MyPlan: T HLTH 460
T HLTH 465 Integrative Health and Wellness Coaching (5)
Examines integrative health and wellness coaching partnership to assist clients to identify and achieve health goals. Focuses on prevention across the wellness-illness continuum, health lifestyle, and integrative modalities.
View course details in MyPlan: T HLTH 465
T HLTH 470 Challenges and Controversies in US Health Care (2-5, max. 5) I&S
Explores public and private forums in which health policy is formulated and within which the politics of heath care operate. Examines a range of contemporary issues in U.S. health care and the legislative and political mechanisms that shape those issues.
View course details in MyPlan: T HLTH 470
T HLTH 480 Death and American Society (5) VLPA/I&S
Examines the social, cultural, and psychological aspects of death, loss, and grief. Presents a multi-disciplinary approach to death in American society, integrating theory and research with clinical data and personal experiences. Topics include cultural rituals around death, loss and grief, dying as a personal experience, and ethical issues around death.
View course details in MyPlan: T HLTH 480
T HLTH 485 Critical Issues in Global Health (5) I&S
Introduces principles of global health and the socio-cultural, economic, and geo-political frameworks used for understanding global health problems. Covers patterns of major diseases and health problems of global importance along with strategies for responding to them. Identifies key institutions and non-governmental organizations that contribute to global health promotion and policies
View course details in MyPlan: T HLTH 485
T HLTH 490 Special Topics (2-5, max. 15)
Advanced course offerings to respond to faculty and student interests and needs.
View course details in MyPlan: T HLTH 490
T HLTH 498 Special Project in Health (1-12, max. 12)
Further development, critical examination, and synthesis of healthcare in a specialized setting.
View course details in MyPlan: T HLTH 498
T HLTH 499 Undergraduate Research (1-5, max. 12)
Supervised individual research on a specific health issue.
View course details in MyPlan: T HLTH 499
T HLTH 501 Issues in Race and Health (3)
Explores historical and contemporary issues on the role of race in relation and health outcomes. Seminar topics include: history of race, health effects of racism and discrimination, epidemiological evidence on racial disparities in health, and role of race in research.
View course details in MyPlan: T HLTH 501
T HLTH 505 Participatory Action Research (3)
Focuses on how to conduct research with a social action component. Provides an in-depth examination of participatory action research. Explores theoretical, methodological, and practical issues, including historical influences, design and methods, and application of findings.
View course details in MyPlan: T HLTH 505
T HLTH 510 Ethnographic Research Methods (3)
Provides a background in ethnographic research methodology emphasizing beginning ethnographic and field research studies. Analyzes the theory underlying qualitative research approaches and pragmatic issues in building skills and knowledge in relation to conducting and evaluating ethnographic research.
View course details in MyPlan: T HLTH 510
T HLTH 511 INTRODUCTION TO EPIDEMIOLOGY (3-4)
Provides an introduction to epidemiologic methods and concepts, as used in public health practice and research. Examines documentation of variation in disease occurrence in different populations, rates and their uses to infer varying degrees of causality, bias, and study design.
View course details in MyPlan: T HLTH 511
T HLTH 520 Health and Human Rights (3)
Examines the links between health and human rights. Considers how violations of human rights affect the health of populations across the globe, as well as actions that can be taken to improve health and human rights.
View course details in MyPlan: T HLTH 520
T HLTH 530 Health and Aging in a Diverse Society (3)
Provides an introduction to health and other social issues of members of minority elderly populations in the U.S. Reflects a range of perspectives in the social, behavioral, and health sciences. Emphasizes the importance of situating the life experiences of today's diverse elders in historical context. Prerequisite: graduate standing or permission of instructor.
View course details in MyPlan: T HLTH 530
T HLTH 590 Independent Study (1-6, max. 6)
Faculty supervised independent study, readings and special projects for graduate students as developed through faculty-student agreement
View course details in MyPlan: T HLTH 590
THLEAD 350 Critical Analysis and Writing (5)
Focuses on principles of critical analysis, critical reading skills, acquiring peer reviewed research, and developing skills in written and oral communication. Applies critical analysis and writing to health related issues.
View course details in MyPlan: THLEAD 350
THLEAD 360 Healthcare Leadership Strategies (5) I&S
Emphasizes essential healthcare leadership competencies by focusing on communication, collaboration, change mastery, and conflict resolution. Provides essential theoretical leadership foundation and review evidence for specific leadership style. Provides opportunity to discover one's own leadership abilities with respect to each of the discussed competencies.
View course details in MyPlan: THLEAD 360
THLEAD 380 Healthcare Budgetary Analysis and Financial Decision Making (5) I&S
Focuses on budgets commonly encountered in healthcare including operating and capital budgets. Provides methods to analyze financial status including productivity measures, variance analysis, break-even analysis, and evaluation of financial documents as well as introduction to cost effectiveness and cost/benefit analysis strategies. Examines insurance as a revenue source in healthcare budgets. Prerequisite: a minimum grade of 2.0 in either THLEAD 350 or T NURS 350.
View course details in MyPlan: THLEAD 380
THLEAD 403 Introduction to Research in Nursing and Healthcare (3) QSR
Describes the systematic steps of the research process. Introduces approaches, frameworks, and concepts used in investigating healthcare and nursing problems. Emphasizes integration of research findings related to evidence-based healthcare and nursing practice. Prerequisite: either THLEAD 350 or T NURS 350; either T HLTH 305, TMATH 110, or one 100-300 level STAT course. Offered: jointly with T NURS 403.
View course details in MyPlan: THLEAD 403
THLEAD 405 Health Informatics I: Fundamentals (5)
Introduces core concepts and practices of health informatics, technologies applied to healthcare, research, and public health. Includes terminologies, data standards, evidence-based medicine, and decision support systems. Considers the viewpoints of information technology from medicine, computer science, nursing, public health, patients/consumers, exploring opportunities, and emerging trends in the field.
View course details in MyPlan: THLEAD 405
THLEAD 406 Health Informatics II: Databases and Data Analysis (5) NW
Introduces the acquisition, use, storage, and analysis of information in the healthcare domain. Teaches the skills necessary to interpret and develop state-of-the-art database systems that support healthcare and apply analytical approaches to solve problems. Prerequisite: THLEAD 405; either THLEAD 403 or T NURS 403.
View course details in MyPlan: THLEAD 406
THLEAD 407 Diversity, Health, and Inequities (3) VLPA/I&S, DIV
Examines how difference, discrimination, marginalization, power, and privilege relate to health , illness, and healthcare. Attends to historical and structural manifestations of oppression and inequity. Addresses health inequities. Offered: jointly with T NURS 407.
View course details in MyPlan: THLEAD 407
THLEAD 410 Ethical Issues in Healthcare (3) I&S
Identifies ethical issues relevant to healthcare and the profession of nursing. Identifies, describes, and analyzes multiple ethical perspectives, selected ethical dilemmas relevant to professional practice, the delivery of health care, and the health of individuals and populations. Offered: jointly with T NURS 410.
View course details in MyPlan: THLEAD 410
THLEAD 420 Healthcare Accreditation and Legal Issues (5) I&S
Examines critical accreditation and legal issues commonly occurring in healthcare organizations. Focuses on specific accreditation processes and quality issues. Examines patient privacy, access and consent requirements, security requirements, safety challenges, organizational legal issues, and personnel legal issues. Prerequisite: a minimum grade of 2.0 in either THLEAD 350 or T NURS 350.
View course details in MyPlan: THLEAD 420
THLEAD 430 Interpersonal Communication (1-3, max. 3) I&S
Addresses communication skills, patterns, and practices. Examines nonverbal and verbal modes of communication. Explores communicating in a variety of contexts' pertinent to healthcare; for example, cultural, personal, professional, group, conflict, and leadership. Applies conceptual models in interpersonal processes. Offered: jointly with T NURS 430.
View course details in MyPlan: THLEAD 430
THLEAD 460 Personnel Management in Healthcare (5)
Focuses on personnel management topics relevant to healthcare managers/leaders. Examines issues related to recruiting, hiring, orienting, developing, and evaluating healthcare personnel. Explores personnel management labor laws and collective bargaining requirements.
View course details in MyPlan: THLEAD 460
THLEAD 480 Healthcare Leadership Fieldwork (4)
Provides an opportunity to apply theory to a work environment in a healthcare organization associated with future career goals. Provides experiential opportunities to demonstrate professional behaviors. Prerequisite: THLEAD 350; THLEAD 360; THLEAD 380; THLEAD 403; THLEAD 407; THLEAD 420; THLEAD 430; and T HLTH 440.
View course details in MyPlan: THLEAD 480
THLEAD 496 Internship (1-10, max. 10)
Engages in experiential learning through an internship. Applied academic knowledge to begin to develop competencies in healthcare leadership role.
View course details in MyPlan: THLEAD 496
T NURS 340 Clinical Nursing Phenomena (3)
Examines selected clinical phenomena from the perspective of a range of human responses to life events and alterations in health status and illness. Identifies relationships of selected nursing therapies in treating human responses and the influence of life span and socio-cultural factors.
View course details in MyPlan: T NURS 340
T NURS 345 Genetics, Genomics, and Nursing Practice (1)
Focuses on the role of genetics and genomics in health, patient care, and nursing practice.
View course details in MyPlan: T NURS 345
T NURS 350 Critical Analysis and Writing (3)
Focuses on critical thinking and writing relevant to learning and practice in nursing and healthcare. Applies critical analysis to health-related issues.
View course details in MyPlan: T NURS 350
T NURS 402 Families and Chronic Conditions across the Life Span (3) I&S
Examines families with chronic conditions across the life span. Reviews risk and protective factors that facilitate or impede chronic care management by families. Focuses on family function, structure, process, and environmental context including support networks, community resources, and healthcare settings as they influence care outcomes.
View course details in MyPlan: T NURS 402
T NURS 403 Introduction to Research in Nursing and Healthcare (3) QSR
Describes the systematic steps of the research process. Introduces approaches, frameworks, and concepts used in investigating healthcare and nursing problems. Emphasizes integration of research findings related to evidence-based healthcare and nursing practice. Prerequisite: either THLEAD 350 or T NURS 350; either T HLTH 305, TMATH 110, or one 100-300 level STAT course. Offered: jointly with THLEAD 403.
View course details in MyPlan: T NURS 403
T NURS 407 Diversity, Health, and Inequities (3) VLPA/I&S, DIV
Examines how difference, discrimination, marginalization, power, and privilege relate to health , illness, and healthcare. Attends to historical and structural manifestations of oppression and inequity. Addresses health inequities. Offered: jointly with THLEAD 407.
View course details in MyPlan: T NURS 407
T NURS 410 Ethical Issues in Healthcare (3) I&S
Identifies ethical issues relevant to healthcare and the profession of nursing. Identifies, describes, and analyzes multiple ethical perspectives, selected ethical dilemmas relevant to professional practice, the delivery of health care, and the health of individuals and populations. Offered: jointly with THLEAD 410.
View course details in MyPlan: T NURS 410
T NURS 412 Health Care Systems (3)
Analyzes health care systems. Emphasizes U.S. healthcare system evolution, financing, quality, access, and technology.
View course details in MyPlan: T NURS 412
T NURS 414 Health, Communities, and Populations (5) I&S
Applies community and public health nursing principles to prevent disease and promote health. Addresses the importance of working collaboratively to facilitate community and population health. Prerequisite: T NURS 350; T NURS 403.
View course details in MyPlan: T NURS 414
T NURS 430 Interpersonal Communication (1-3, max. 3) I&S
Addresses communication skills, patterns, and practices. Examines nonverbal and verbal modes of communication. Explores communicating in a variety of contexts' pertinent to healthcare; for example, cultural, personal, professional, group, conflict, and leadership. Applies conceptual models in interpersonal processes. Offered: jointly with THLEAD 430.
View course details in MyPlan: T NURS 430
T NURS 435 Nursing Leadership (3)
Emphasizes leadership styles, theories, and the role of nurses as organizational change agents and health policy advocates. Addresses team collaboration and conflict resolution.
View course details in MyPlan: T NURS 435
T NURS 450 Transition to Baccalaureate Education (1, max. 9)
Assists students with transition to baccalaureate education and with portfolio development. Provides opportunity for students to participate in a learning community. Credit/no-credit only.
View course details in MyPlan: T NURS 450
T NURS 451 Portfolio Completion (1)
Addresses progress towards meeting BSN program goals. Summarizes how completion of the BSN program has influenced current and future practice. Credit/no-credit only.
View course details in MyPlan: T NURS 451
T NURS 497 Selected Topics in Nursing (1-12, max. 12)
Survey and discussion of current literature and topics in nursing. Seminar with analysis and discussion of selected topics and readings. May have clinical component. Emphasizes implications for nursing and health care.
View course details in MyPlan: T NURS 497
T NURS 498 Special Project in Nursing (1-12, max. 12)
Further development, critical examination, and synthesis of nursing care in a specialized setting. Increasing depth of clinical practice, including care to groups and communities as clients, applying leadership skills, assessing problems affecting quality health care delivery.
View course details in MyPlan: T NURS 498
T NURS 499 Undergraduate Research (1-5, max. 12)
Supervised individual research on a specific nursing problem.
View course details in MyPlan: T NURS 499
T NURS 503 Advanced Fieldwork I (3)
Provides students with a substantive field experience in their setting of interest. Assists students in delineating master's level nursing practice roles and applying theoretical concepts in a real-world context. Prerequisite: T NURS 510; T NURS 551; T NURS 552; T NURS 557; and two curriculum option courses. Credit/no-credit only.
View course details in MyPlan: T NURS 503
T NURS 505 Advanced Fieldwork II (3)
Provides students with a substantive field experience in their setting of interest. Assists students in delineating master's level nursing practice roles and applying theoretical concepts in a real-world context. Prerequisite: T NURS 510; T NURS 551; T NURS 552; T NURS 557; and two curriculum option courses. Credit/no-credit only.
View course details in MyPlan: T NURS 505
T NURS 510 Society and Health (3)
Explores relationships between ecological, global, and social factors, and health disparities and inequities. Examines how health and illness are socially constructed. Considers means through which equitable health and healthcare can be achieved, particularly among diverse populations.
View course details in MyPlan: T NURS 510
T NURS 511 Curriculum Development in Nursing and Health Education (3)
Theoretical rationale for curriculum development that reflects contemporary health trends. Bases curricula design and implementation decisions on educational principles, theory, and research.
View course details in MyPlan: T NURS 511
T NURS 512 Evaluation of Academic and Clinical Performance in Nursing Health Care (3)
In-depth examination of the evaluation of learning. Includes assessment of a range of evaluation strategies and evaluations of clinical performance. Focuses on evaluation issues relevant to both academic and health care settings.
View course details in MyPlan: T NURS 512
T NURS 513 Theories and Methods of Teaching and Learning (3)
Addresses theories and methods of teaching and learning, tools and resources for teaching, role development, and current issues faced by those who teach in higher education and staff development. Partly Web-based.
View course details in MyPlan: T NURS 513
T NURS 514 Challenges and Issues in Patient Education (3)
Provides overview of selected challenges and issues in patient education: low literacy, patient acuity, health status, early discharge, evolving health policy, cost of health care and staff proficiency. Considers the role of the advanced practice nurse in creating and managing patient education programs for individuals, groups, and populations.
View course details in MyPlan: T NURS 514
T NURS 515 Online Teaching Strategies (3)
Addresses pedagogical and design issues as well as technical skills required to successfully teach in the online environment by integrating experiential online interactions and face-to-face meetings.
View course details in MyPlan: T NURS 515
T NURS 522 Theory Development for a Practice Discipline (3)
Explores the evolutionary development of nursing theory and its contribution to the development of nursing science. Emphasizes the philosophical foundation, the hierarchical structure, and the evaluative criteria used in theory development and its practice application.
View course details in MyPlan: T NURS 522
T NURS 523 Assessment and Planning for Healthcare Leaders (3)
Survey of concepts, approaches, and tools used to identify health issues and measure health status in select communities, populations, or groups. Covers processes used to lead and conduct assessments and plan programs to address health concerns. Considers policies and other macro-level factors influencing assessment and program planning. Prerequisite: TNURS 557 or permission of instructor.
View course details in MyPlan: T NURS 523
T NURS 527 Healthcare Systems and Health Policy (3)
Analyzes the influence of policy on the structure and financing of healthcare. Explores the development and implementation of health policies including the role of advocacy for improving practice and healthcare outcomes. Examines legal and regulatory processes around healthcare.
View course details in MyPlan: T NURS 527
T NURS 537 Concepts of Organization (3)
Demonstrates how concepts of organizations and the metaphors used to describe them affect the analysis, management, and ethical dimensions of organizational environments. Students analyze their own work environments from a variety of perspectives, both to improve their understanding of work contexts and as a basis for planning managerial action.
View course details in MyPlan: T NURS 537
T NURS 538 Concepts of Clinical Care (3)
Examines theoretical concepts that explain the wide range of human responses to illness. Explores the interrelationship of physiological, psychological, social, and spiritual dimensions of human response. Address the assessment, measurement, management, and evaluation of commonly encountered, protypical clinical phenomena from a research-based perspective.
View course details in MyPlan: T NURS 538
T NURS 539 Healthcare Business Strategies: Optimizing Resources (3)
Explores strategies to address challenges of optimizing resources utilization in a dynamic, changing healthcare environment that has an increasing business-oriented focus. Examines human and fiscal resource management strategies, focusing on personnel issues relevant in healthcare organization, gaining working knowledge of budgetary processes, and fiscal decision-making expertise.
View course details in MyPlan: T NURS 539
T NURS 540 Concepts of Hospice and Palliative Care (3)
Examines models of care and theoretical frameworks that guide and evaluate patient-family centered end-of-life care. Addresses symptom distress, psychosocial and spiritual aspects, as well as educational, communicative, and ethical components of hospice and palliative care.
View course details in MyPlan: T NURS 540
T NURS 541 Concepts of Chronic Illness (3)
Addresses the context of chronic illness and its impact on individuals, families, and the healthcare system. Explores psychosocial and spiritual variables, interventions, and care models that influence self-care and healthcare outcomes if individuals with chronic illness.
View course details in MyPlan: T NURS 541
T NURS 550 Seminar on Professional Issues in Nursing Education (3)
Seminar on role and related professional issues in nursing education. Prerequisite: either NSG 545, B NURS 513, or T NURS 513; either NSG 546, B NURS 511, or T NURS 511. Offered: jointly with B NURS 550/NSG 550.
View course details in MyPlan: T NURS 550
T NURS 551 Translating Research into Nursing Practice (5)
Analyzes conceptual, theoretical, and empirical knowledge as foundations for evidence-based practice. Examines methodological approaches to scholarly inquiry and the research process from problem identification through translation. Evaluates the role of nurses with advanced education in research.
View course details in MyPlan: T NURS 551
T NURS 552 Organizational and Systems Leadership (3)
Demonstrates how leadership and decision making skills influence healthcare. Focuses on understanding influence of change strategies, systems theory, and economic factors on complex healthcare environments. Describes role of nurses in designing and implementing new models of care and participating in inter-professional teams.
View course details in MyPlan: T NURS 552
T NURS 554 Informatics & Healthcare Technology (3)
Introduces concepts and practices of informatics technologies applied to healthcare organizations, research, and public health. Includes terminologies, data standards, decision support systems, and legal and ethical issues with health data use. Introduces acquisition, use, storage, and analysis of information in healthcare domain. Uses analytics to solve patient care and safety problems.
View course details in MyPlan: T NURS 554
T NURS 556 Quality and Safety in Healthcare Settings (3)
Examines methods, tools, performance measurements, and outcome indicators related to safety and quality improvement. Emphasizes the roles of collaboration, inter-professional teams, and communication in improving patient safety and health outcomes.
View course details in MyPlan: T NURS 556
T NURS 557 Population Health, Health Promotion, and Clinical Prevention (3)
Examines concepts of population health, health promotion, and clinical prevention. Considers issues of culture and context in designing, delivering, and evaluating interventions that improve health outcomes for individuals, families, communities, and populations. Emphasizes collaborative approaches to improve health outcomes.
View course details in MyPlan: T NURS 557
T NURS 558 Individual Health Assessment (3)
Provides framework for systematic collection, organization, and communication of health-related data reflecting health status of individuals throughout the lifespan. Addresses physical examination skills. Addresses influence of developmental, psychosocial, and cultural factors. Examines pharmacology and other therapies.
View course details in MyPlan: T NURS 558
T NURS 561 Program Design, Implementation, and Evaluation (3)
Examines health program design, implementation, and evaluation. Explores models of implementation and evaluation. Applies leadership principles towards program implementation and sustainability. Prerequisite: T NURS 557; T NURS 523 or permission of instructor.
View course details in MyPlan: T NURS 561
T NURS 590 Special Topics in Nursing (2-3, max. 9)
Analyzes current research, issues, and application of selected topics in nursing; may have clinical component. Emphasizes implications for nursing and health care.
View course details in MyPlan: T NURS 590
T NURS 598 Scholarly Projects (1-12, max. 12)
Scholarly inquiry with in-depth, focused analysis, culminating in a written product/report for dissemination. Prerequisite: T NURS 551. Credit/no-credit only.
View course details in MyPlan: T NURS 598
T NURS 599 Selected Readings in Nursing Science (1-3, max. 18)
View course details in MyPlan: T NURS 599
T NURS 600 Independent Study or Research (*-)
Credit/no-credit only.
View course details in MyPlan: T NURS 600
T NURS 700 Master's Thesis (*-)
Credit/no-credit only.
View course details in MyPlan: T NURS 700
T CRIM 101 Introduction to Criminal Justice (5) I&S
Examines the history, structure, operations, and problems with the American criminal justice system. Analyzes general and specific topics associated with the contemporary criminal justice system in order to develop a critical perspective on the nature of justice and society's response to criminal behavior.
View course details in MyPlan: T CRIM 101
T CRIM 155 Media, Crime, and Justice (5) I&S
Investigates interrelationships between crime, justice, and mass media. Explores representations of crime, offenders, victims, police, courts, and incarceration systems as portrayed by television, film, music, news, and electronic media and considers the impacts of these portrayals. Examines how media inform, interpret, distort, and filter understandings of crime and justice.
View course details in MyPlan: T CRIM 155
T CRIM 222 United States Federal Law Enforcement (5)
Examines the structures, jurisdictions, and functions of federal law enforcement. Explores and assesses ethical and legal imperatives to balance civil liberty protections. Analyzes mandates to address national security and criminal activity within the United States and globally. Critically analyzes the actions of federal law enforcement through a social justice lens.
View course details in MyPlan: T CRIM 222
T CRIM 225 Diversity and Social Justice in Criminology (5) I&S, DIV
Explores definitions and implications of diversity and social justice theory. Applies principles of social justice to criminal justice contexts within the United States. Analyzes social positons in relation to relative privilege and power. Emphasizes experiential and reflective learning. .
View course details in MyPlan: T CRIM 225
T CRIM 271 Introduction to the Sociology of Deviance and Social Control (5) I&S
Examination of deviance, deviant behavior, and social control. Deviance as a social process; types of deviant behavior (e.g., suicide, mental illness, drug use, crime, "sexual deviance," delinquency); theories of deviance and deviant behavior; nature and social organization of societal reactions; and social and legal policy issues.
View course details in MyPlan: T CRIM 271
T CRIM 272 Restorative Justice (5) I&S
Explores the philosophical underpinnings of restorative justice as well as its application as a complementary and alternative approach to criminal justice processing. Analyzes the effectiveness of restorative justice for resolving harm through directly engaging victims, offenders, and communities.
View course details in MyPlan: T CRIM 272
T CRIM 275 White Collar Crime (5) I&S
Employs social scientific and legal approaches to examine crime committed by corporations and individuals in white-collar occupations. Explores social definitions, perpetrators and victims of white-collar crimes. Critically examines which social contexts promote such crime and analyzes how society and the criminal justice system respond to them.
View course details in MyPlan: T CRIM 275
T CRIM 352 Women in the Criminal Justice System (5) I&S
Explores the history, societal impact, and future of women within the U.S. criminal justice system. Focuses on factors which contribute to female incarceration including poverty, physical and sexual victimization, chemical dependency, and major mental illness. Gender-responsive strategies designed for advocacy and empowerment address major economic and social justice issues.
View course details in MyPlan: T CRIM 352
T CRIM 360 Youth and Juvenile Justice Systems (5) I&S
Focuses on juveniles as both legal offenders and crime victims from an ecological perspective. Emphasizes juvenile criminal offense theories, the continuum of legal responses, and the consequences on youth, families, and society.
View course details in MyPlan: T CRIM 360
T CRIM 361 Addictions and Mental Illness in Criminal Justice (5) I&S
Examines mental illness and addictions as they manifest in criminal justice systems. Focuses on the prevalence of mental illness and addictions in prisons, as well as best practices for treatment. Examines prison culture as it relates to substance abuse and mental illness. Offered: jointly with TSOCWF 361.
View course details in MyPlan: T CRIM 361
T CRIM 362 Criminological Theory (5) I&S
Surveys the major schools of thought related to the causes of criminal behavior, positions theories in their historical contexts, discusses each perspective's assumptions about human nature, outlines current debates and critiques, and explores the policy implications of each theoretical perspective.
View course details in MyPlan: T CRIM 362
T CRIM 363 The Criminalization of Immigration (5) I&S, DIV
Offered: jointly with TSOCWF 363.
View course details in MyPlan: T CRIM 363
T CRIM 364 Criminal Justice and the LGBTQ Experience (5) I&S, DIV
Examines experiences of lesbian, gay, bi-sexual, transgendered, queer (LGBTQ) people through the stages of criminal justice systems. Explores the history of the LGBTQ movement through policy and law. Examines criminal justice organizations and their treatment of LGBTQ people. Examines the consequences of discrimination toward LGBTQ people throughout the criminal justice process.
View course details in MyPlan: T CRIM 364
T CRIM 365 Facing Harm: Victim Offender Dialogue (5) I&S
Examines the relationship between restorative justice theory and practice. Develops skills in facilitating several models of victim offender dialogue (VOD). Articulates the benefits and risks of VOD for justice stakeholders. Critically examines the effectiveness of VOD as a response to crime and violence. Cultivates a practitioner identity.
View course details in MyPlan: T CRIM 365
T CRIM 370 Police and Society (5) I&S
Examines the role of law enforcement offices within American society, emphasizing history, public perceptions, administration, organizational culture, ethics, and police deviance. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in T CRIM 225.
View course details in MyPlan: T CRIM 370
T CRIM 371 Helping Skills in Criminal Justice (5) I&S
Focuses on skills needed to establish constructive helping relationships with individuals involved directly and indirectly in the criminal justice system. Skills include empathy, active listening, boundary setting, maximizing strengths, positive conformation and challenges, and the basics of cognitive and systemic change. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in T CRIM 225.
View course details in MyPlan: T CRIM 371
T CRIM 372 Adult Corrections (5) I&S
Focuses on the history, structure, operations, and problems within the corrections component of the criminal justice system. Explores practice and policy issues relevant to the contemporary adult corrections system. Examines the nature of community and institutional corrections settings and offender populations. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in T CRIM 225.
View course details in MyPlan: T CRIM 372
T CRIM 373 Criminal Evidence and Investigation (5) I&S
Examines scientific crime detection, techniques for case management and documentation, the concept of proof, the impact of emergent technology on the investigative process, interacting with victims and witnesses, and interviewing suspects. Emphasizes the investigation of particular crimes, such as, homicide, sex offences, child abuse, and hate crimes.
View course details in MyPlan: T CRIM 373
T CRIM 374 Human Trafficking (5) I&S
Examines domestic and international human trafficking, recruitment, and control methodologies. Considers labor and sexual exploitation and examines existing laws and services to combat trafficking. Analyzes the role of demand in perpetuating trafficking and the victims' trauma. Applies best practice solutions. Offered: jointly with TSOCWF 374.
View course details in MyPlan: T CRIM 374
T CRIM 375 Men, Masculinities, and Criminal Justice (5) I&S
Explores issues related to men and masculinities in the criminal justice system. Examines the various conceptions of masculinities that increase the risk of criminality, and how men "perform" masculinities within the criminal justice system and to the provision of services.
View course details in MyPlan: T CRIM 375
T CRIM 395 American Criminal Courts (5) I&S
Examines the background, legal principles, and structures that underlie the courts component of United States criminal justice systems. Focuses on the roles of court actors, the procedures through which criminal courts uphold and/or threaten basic rights and liberties, and contemporary issues. Applies a critical, social justice lens to United States criminal courts.
View course details in MyPlan: T CRIM 395
T CRIM 409 Advanced Readings in Criminal Justice (1-5, max. 15)
Student-initiated, individually contracted course of study targeted at developing greater mastery of a specific area within criminal justice under the supervision of a social work faculty member with expertise in a related area of criminal justice. Focuses on individualized student-centered learning with emphasis on achievement of stated student learning objectives.
View course details in MyPlan: T CRIM 409
T CRIM 427 Disproportionality Across Systems (5) I&S
Examines disproportionate representation of people of color in the child welfare, criminal justice, economic, education, health, juvenile justice, and mental health systems. Focuses on how each of these systems interacts with the criminal justice system where disproportionality is a particularly serious problem. Offered: jointly with TSOCWF 427.
View course details in MyPlan: T CRIM 427
T CRIM 428 Policy and Practice with Sexual Offenders (5) I&S
Develops understanding of sex crimes and the people who commit them. Addresses the theoretical explanations of, and policies regarding treatment for offenders. Analyzes laws related to sex offenders, their constitutional legitimacy, and the difficulty in balancing offender and community rights. Offered: jointly with TSOCWF 428.
View course details in MyPlan: T CRIM 428
T CRIM 430 Children of Incarcerated Parents (5) I&S
Examines the impact of parental incarceration on the psychological, social, physical, and biological development of children. Focuses on issues of loss, trauma, attachment, and ways to address such issues. Offered: jointly with TSOCWF 430.
View course details in MyPlan: T CRIM 430
T CRIM 433 Crisis and Trauma Interventions with Crime Victims (5) I&S
Provides an overview of victimology and teaches practice skills for working with victims of crime and their families. Examines the efficacy and application of interventions that try to alleviate the impact of crime on victims, facilitate victims' mental health recovery, and assist in system navigation. Offered: jointly with TSOCWF 433.
View course details in MyPlan: T CRIM 433
T CRIM 434 Criminal Homicide (5) I&S
Examines the causes, forms, and consequences of homicide offending and victimization. Explores the patterns and characteristics of various forms of homicide. Analyzes the effectiveness of solutions and interventions both within and beyond criminal justice systems.
View course details in MyPlan: T CRIM 434
T CRIM 435 Terrorism and the U.S. Criminal Justice System (5)
Assesses terrorism and counterterrorism organizations from an American criminal justice perspective. Explores the nature of terrorism, motivations of terrorists, and the tactics utilized by terrorists while detailing strategies use by law enforcement to counter these individuals and groups. Analyzes social factors of terrorism and of terrorism threats in contemporary society.
View course details in MyPlan: T CRIM 435
T CRIM 440 Fundamental of Criminal Law (5) I&S
Examines the historical, constitutional, and legal principles applicable to substantive criminal law. Analyzes the definition of criminal law, elements of major crimes, general principles of criminal responsibility, punishment, and the conditions that may excuse an individual from criminal liability or mitigate punishment.
View course details in MyPlan: T CRIM 440
T CRIM 441 Senior Seminar: Professionalism and Ethical Issues in Criminal Justice (5) I&S
Examines the interaction between ethics and criminal justice practice, including application of ethical theory to criminal justice issues. Topics include ethical response to police brutality and corruption in criminal justice systems, development of professional identity, and promotion of professional conduct. Prerequisite: T CRIM 371; TSOCWF 390.
View course details in MyPlan: T CRIM 441
T CRIM 450 Comparative Criminal Justice Systems (5) I&S
Examines the design, function, and legal basis for non-United States criminal justice systems. Engages cross-cultural analyses of the connection between government, political, demographic, and economic factors in explaining historical and contemporary trends. Compares and contrasts non-United States and United States criminal justice systems. Includes a study abroad component.
View course details in MyPlan: T CRIM 450
T CRIM 490 Independent Research in Criminal Justice (1-3, max. 12)
Student-initiated, individually contracted research with a faculty member to engage the design and implementation of original empirical research. Training and supervision in some or all aspects of criminological/criminal justice research. Active participation as member of research team, with emphasis on achievement of state student learning objectives.
View course details in MyPlan: T CRIM 490
T CRIM 498 Criminal Justice Internship (5) I&S
Applies academic knowledge to further develop professional competencies critical to a successful career within the criminal justice field. Provides experiential learning in criminal justice.
View course details in MyPlan: T CRIM 498
T SOCW 501 Social Policy and Economic Security (3)
Explores the U.S. social welfare system and its historical, philosophical, and cultural foundations. Examines the nature of social policy and economic security in relation to income maintenance programs, particularly social insurance and social assistance programs, and the impact of racism and sexism on them. Focuses on issues of poverty, inequality, unemployment, disability, and homelessness. Discusses the future of the American welfare state.
View course details in MyPlan: T SOCW 501
T SOCW 502 Human Behavior and the Social Environment I (3)
Focuses on the person-in-situation. Explores developmental stages across diverse backgrounds, how to understand and influence human behavior through developmental and social system perspectives, dynamics and processes of small group, family, organization and community systems from a social system perspective as socializing forces and as targets of change, and examines implications for social work practice, especially the assessment process.
View course details in MyPlan: T SOCW 502
T SOCW 503 Human Behavior and the Social Environment II (3)
T SOCW 502 continuation. Focuses on the person-in-situation. Explores developmental stages across diverse backgrounds, how to understand and influence human behavior through developmental and social system perspectives, dynamics and processes of small group, family, organization and community systems from a social system perspective as socializing forces and as targets of change. Examines implications for social work practice and assessment.
View course details in MyPlan: T SOCW 503
T SOCW 504 Cultural Diversity and Societal Justice (3)
Examines the conceptual, theoretical, and empirical knowledge base related to difference, disadvantage, oppression, social justice, and empowerment. Gains skills in working with people using cultural humility, linguistic competence, and intersectionality, as framework for understanding the complexity of people experiencing marginalization. Credit/no-credit only.
View course details in MyPlan: T SOCW 504
T SOCW 505 Introduction to Social Welfare Research (3)
Overview of research processes and methods in social work in order to interpret and perform practice-based research. Introduction to the principles and skills needed to evaluate one's own practice. Emphasizes critical understanding of the empirical literature; the development of useful and appropriate questions about social work practice, strategies and techniques for conducting practice research, and applying research findings to practice.
View course details in MyPlan: T SOCW 505
T SOCW 510 Social Work Practice I - Introduction to Social Work Practice (3)
Practices foundation skills in relationship building, interviewing, assessment and intervention while learning how to complete assessments for a range of practice settings and utilizing a variety of theoretical perspectives.
View course details in MyPlan: T SOCW 510
T SOCW 511 Social Work Practice II - Intermediate Direct Service Practice (3)
Foundation knowledge and skills for direct practice with individuals, families, and groups. Covers assessment, development of treatment plans based on theory and assessment information, goal-setting skills, and selection of appropriate interventions. Offered: A.
View course details in MyPlan: T SOCW 511
T SOCW 512 Practice III: Community and Organizational Practice (3)
Prepares students for generalist macro social work practice. Focuses on effective work in political, organizational, and community social service settings.
View course details in MyPlan: T SOCW 512
T SOCW 514 Social Work Practice V - Foundation Practice Skills (3)
Practice skills at the micro, meso, or macro levels.
View course details in MyPlan: T SOCW 514
T SOCW 523 Introduction to Practicum (1)
Workshops for preparation for agency-based placement. Interviewing and orientations occur at agencies. Credit/no-credit only.
View course details in MyPlan: T SOCW 523
T SOCW 524 The Professional Foundation Practicum (2/3, max. 8)
Incorporates and builds upon content and skills acquired in the curriculum. Provides opportunities for students to develop social work knowledge and skills and to engage in a range of social work practice activities. Credit/no-credit only.
View course details in MyPlan: T SOCW 524
T SOCW 525 Advanced Concentration Practicum (3-5, max. 18)
Incorporates and builds upon content and skills acquired in all areas of the curriculum. Provides opportunities for students to develop social work knowledge and skills in the field and to engage in a range of social work practice activities. Credit/no-credit only.
View course details in MyPlan: T SOCW 525
T SOCW 531 Advanced Integrative Policy and Advocacy (3)
Examines current policy issues related to families; applied theoretical framework to selected policies and considers the political nature of policy choices. Evaluates the potential for system reform at both state and national levels, as well as local communities and agencies. Enhances advocacy skills for policy change to achieve social justice.
View course details in MyPlan: T SOCW 531
T SOCW 532 Advanced Integrative Practice I (3)
Focuses on the assumption of leadership roles in the design, implementation, and evaluation of research-informed intervention programs at the micro, mezzo, and macro levels of practice.
View course details in MyPlan: T SOCW 532
T SOCW 533 Advanced Integrative Practice II (3)
Focuses on the ethics, values, critical thinking, and program development skills needed to accomplish the intervention program research in TSOC W 532.
View course details in MyPlan: T SOCW 533
T SOCW 535 Research for Advanced Integrative Practice (3)
Focuses on data collection, management, analysis, the write up of research results, and appropriate dissemination of findings. Prerequisite: T SOCW 505.
View course details in MyPlan: T SOCW 535
T SOCW 540 Child Welfare and Permanency Planning (3) I&S
Focuses on family-centered, culturally competent, and legally effective child welfare practice. Emphasizes the public foster care system, with additional content in child protective services, adoptions, assessment of child safety, and programming to assist healthy family functioning.
View course details in MyPlan: T SOCW 540
T SOCW 541 Adult and Adolescent Interpersonal Violence and Treatment (3)
Focuses on theoretical frameworks of interpersonal violence and treatment approaches for both survivors and perpetrators of such violence. Includes examination of domestic violence, sexual violence, and the impact of violence on children.
View course details in MyPlan: T SOCW 541
T SOCW 542 Social Work in Schools (3)
Focuses on the specialized nature of social work in school settings and examines legal and ethical aspects of work in preK-12 schools. Emphasizes practice with students with special needs, bullying, child abuse and neglect, school and family law, truancy, and school violence.
View course details in MyPlan: T SOCW 542
T SOCW 543 Supervision and Leadership in Social Work (3)
Focuses on the social worker as supervisor and leader, both in agencies and in the profession. Examines specific models of supervision and leadership, with emphasis on the values and ethics of the profession in the context of leadership.
View course details in MyPlan: T SOCW 543
T SOCW 544 Gerontological Social Work: Health and Mental Health in Older Adults (3)
Examines psychosocial aspects of common age-related problems using an empowerment perspective. Emphasizes the development of skills for assessing the needs of older adults and providing services directly to those individuals. Includes content on end-of-life issues and social work practice.
View course details in MyPlan: T SOCW 544
T SOCW 545 Group Interventions in Social Work Practice (3)
Focuses on the theory and practice of group social work intervention. Emphasizes beginning, middle, and end stages of group intervention as well as specific skills building for a variety of group types, including support, psychoeducational, and process-oriented.
View course details in MyPlan: T SOCW 545
T SOCW 546 Multicultural Theory and Social Work Practice (3)
Emphasizes the multicultural nature of society and the development of social work skills to work with oppressed populations. Focuses on the intersectionality of oppression and means of intervening on behalf of and in conjunction with vulnerable populations.
View course details in MyPlan: T SOCW 546
T SOCW 547 Chemical Dependency: Drug Affects, Assessment, and Treatment Referral Issues (3)
Focuses on the impact of chemical dependency on individuals, including specific reactions to various substance. Examines social work assessment techniques and treatment referral options for chemically addicted clients.
View course details in MyPlan: T SOCW 547
T SOCW 548 Spirituality and Social Work Practice (3)
Focuses on the spiritual component of a holistic assessment of client systems. Emphasizes development of spirituality-sensitive practice skills and practitioner self-awareness. In-depth examination of faith practices and beliefs, including theistic, nontheistic, and animistic traditions.
View course details in MyPlan: T SOCW 548
T SOCW 549 Crisis Intervention in Mental Health (3)
Focuses on the nature, causes, and differences between psychological crisis and psychological emergencies. In-depth examination of the cognitive, relational, and risk management skills used during crisis interventions across a variety of treatment settings. Emphasizes development of intervention skills.
View course details in MyPlan: T SOCW 549
T SOCW 550 Social Work in Health Care (3)
Focuses on skill-building for social work practice in medical settings, including hospitals, clinics, home health programs, and other agencies. Also examines the impact of social policy on access to health care and social work service provision.
View course details in MyPlan: T SOCW 550
T SOCW 551 Social Work with Military Personnel and Veterans (3)
Focuses on social work practice in military-related settings, including active duty personnel and veterans. Pays special attention to military culture and systems, military families, and the special needs of soldiers returning from combat.
View course details in MyPlan: T SOCW 551
T SOCW 552 American Indian Child Welfare (3)
Examines the Indian Child Welfare Act (ICWA) of 1978. Identifies best practices for working with American Indian and Alaska Native children and families. Explores major issues of ICWA, its rationale, implementation, case analysis, and non-compliance consequences. Develops understanding of advanced social work practice skills and knowledge of ICWA.
View course details in MyPlan: T SOCW 552
T SOCW 590 Independent Research in Social Work (3, max. 6)
Advancing research skills through training and development in some or all of the following research tasks: literature review, interviewing, data entry and coding, data collection, data analysis, and other tasks commonly found when conducting research in social work.
View course details in MyPlan: T SOCW 590
T SOCW 597 Social Welfare Research (2)
Provides supervision for the research project development and a structured environment to hone previously learned research methods and content.
View course details in MyPlan: T SOCW 597
T SOCW 598 Advanced Standing Integrative Seminar (5)
Integrates the domains of social work practice, research, policy, cultural diversity, and human behavior and the social environment.
View course details in MyPlan: T SOCW 598
T SOCW 599 Readings in Social Work (1-5, max. 5)
Student-originated, individually contracted projects on topics of interest in social welfare/social work not covered by other Social Work program offerings. Credit/no-credit only.
View course details in MyPlan: T SOCW 599
TSOCWF 101 Introduction to Social Work (5) I&S
Introduces social work as a profession including exploration of its history, values, ethics, and career options within the field. Emphasizes social work's historic commitment to economic and social justice, diversity, empowerment, and improving conditions faced by society's most vulnerable members
View course details in MyPlan: TSOCWF 101
TSOCWF 150 Suicide: Individual and Community Responses (2) I&S
Increases student understanding of historical and contemporary responses to suicide; explores ethical and moral issues; and develops introductory skills used in suicide prevention. Explores psychological and sociological theories of suicide as well as other responses people engage in suicidal behaviors.
View course details in MyPlan: TSOCWF 150
TSOCWF 202 Perspectives on Doing Service (5) I&S
Explores the philosophical, spiritual, cultural, and value concepts that undergird helping and altruistic behaviors by individuals and groups in a global society. Service learning is included in explorations of what helping and service mean in daily life and the professional work world. Offered: Sp.
View course details in MyPlan: TSOCWF 202
TSOCWF 250 Interpersonal Effectiveness (5) I&S
Applies theory and research from multiple social sciences. Expands students' thinking and skills related to relationships and interpersonal communication. Introduces students to constructs and theories such as identity, perception, emotional intelligence, and culture. Develops the mechanics of interpersonal communication and relationship skills.
View course details in MyPlan: TSOCWF 250
TSOCWF 300 Historical Approaches to Social Welfare (5) I&S
Stresses the origin of social welfare policies, beginning with the Elizabethan Poor of 1601. Issues of poverty, as well as development of publicly funded income-maintenance programs, and an understanding of the historical roots of the social work are central. Required for Social Welfare majors. Open to non-majors. Offered: A.
View course details in MyPlan: TSOCWF 300
TSOCWF 301 Professionalism in Social Welfare Practice (2)
Focuses on development of professional identity as a social worker, including understanding of various roles social workers perform; the variety of modalities in which social workers practice; the core values and ethical standards of the profession; social work practice frameworks; use of self; and self-care techniques.
View course details in MyPlan: TSOCWF 301
TSOCWF 310 Social Welfare Practice I (3) I&S
Provides an introduction to the roles, tasks, and functions of the social welfare practitioner and to theories and methods of intervention; a conceptual framework for social work practice with individuals, families, and small groups; and an opportunity to develop skills in problem assessment, intervention, termination, and evaluation. Offered: A.
View course details in MyPlan: TSOCWF 310
TSOCWF 311 Social Welfare Practice II (3)
Examines the roles, tasks and functions of the social welfare practitioner and the theories and methods of intervention; a conceptual framework for social work practice with individuals, families and small groups; and a an opportunity to develop skills in problem assessment, intervention, termination, and evaluation. Prerequisite: TSOCWF 310. Offered: W.
View course details in MyPlan: TSOCWF 311
TSOCWF 312 Social Welfare Practice III (5)
Focuses on macro systems in a diverse society using the generalist perspective. Considers the implications of system resources and configurations for meeting human needs. Emphasizes the role and function of generalist social workers to understand and advocate for system development and change. Prerequisite: TSOCWF 311.
View course details in MyPlan: TSOCWF 312
TSOCWF 320 Social Welfare: Contemporary Approaches (5) I&S
Current Policy and program developments in the social welfare field. Topics include income maintenance proposals, the emergence of programs to treat specific social dysfunctioning (mental health services) and the growth of a service-oriented society. Required for social welfare majors. Open to non-majors. Offered: W.
View course details in MyPlan: TSOCWF 320
TSOCWF 350 Biopsychosocial Human Services (5) I&S/NW
Examination of human life contextualized through the social environment from a biopsychosocial perspective. Emphasizes body systems, individual development, and functioning. Coverage of relevant theoretical frameworks commonly used in human services linking biological, psychological, and sociological principles with client issues in social and community contexts.
View course details in MyPlan: TSOCWF 350
TSOCWF 351 Applied Statistics for Social and Human Services (5) NW, QSR
Applies statistical methods for use in social and human services. Examines purpose and use of social statistics to include analyzing the relationships between variables as a tool for conducting research; central tendencies and dispersion; probability; descriptive statistics, statistical inference and hypothesis testing; and bivariate analysis.
View course details in MyPlan: TSOCWF 351
TSOCWF 353 Mental Illness and Recovery (5) I&S
Provides an overview of persistent and disabling mental illness among adults. Combines classroom and experimental learning. Students learn directly from service providers and consumers the challenges of living with serious mental illness and within health and social welfare system constraints. Offered: AWSpS.
View course details in MyPlan: TSOCWF 353
TSOCWF 354 Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity (5) I&S
Focuses on legal and sociopolitical topics related to sexual orientation and gender identity using social justice and empowerment perspectives. Emphasizes the framing of these topics at the local, national, and global level, and the intersectionality of sexual and gender identity with other aspects of human diversity. Offered: Sp.
View course details in MyPlan: TSOCWF 354
TSOCWF 355 HIV/AIDS: Global and National Issues (5) I&S
Examines historical and contemporary issues related to HIV/AIDS form local, national, and global perspectives. Focuses on HIV/AIDS among vulnerable populations worldwide, prevention efforts, the history of the pandemic, treatment protocols and advances, and psychological impacts on both infected and affected individuals.
View course details in MyPlan: TSOCWF 355
TSOCWF 361 Addictions and Mental Illness in Criminal Justice (5) I&S
Examines mental illness and addictions as they manifest in criminal justice systems. Focuses on the prevalence of mental illness and addictions in prisons, as well as best practices for treatment. Examines prison culture as it relates to substance abuse and mental illness. Offered: jointly with T CRIM 361.
View course details in MyPlan: TSOCWF 361
TSOCWF 363 The Criminalization of Immigration (5) I&S, DIV
Offered: jointly with T CRIM 363.
View course details in MyPlan: TSOCWF 363
TSOCWF 374 Human Trafficking (5) I&S
Examines domestic and international human trafficking, recruitment, and control methodologies. Considers labor and sexual exploitation and examines existing laws and services to combat trafficking. Analyzes the role of demand in perpetuating trafficking and the victims' trauma. Applies best practice solutions. Offered: jointly with T CRIM 374.
View course details in MyPlan: TSOCWF 374
TSOCWF 390 Introduction to Social Welfare Research (5) QSR
Introduces the logic of the scientific method as applied to social work and social welfare practice, to the design and conduct of a research study, and to data collection and summarization. Skill development in critical consumption of social welfare research. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in either QMETH 201, SOC 221, STAT 311, TSOCWF 351, TMATH 110, T HLTH 305, or T URB 225.
View course details in MyPlan: TSOCWF 390
TSOCWF 402 Human Behavior and the Social Environment I (5) I&S
Focuses on person-in-the environment for individuals and family development across the lifespan. Utilizes developmental and social systems perspectives in seeking to understand and influence human behavior across diverse backgrounds. Addresses dynamics and processes of families, small groups, organizations, and community systems. Required for Social Welfare majors. Offered: A.
View course details in MyPlan: TSOCWF 402
TSOCWF 403 Human Behavior and the Social Environment II (3) I&S
Focuses on person-in-the-environment for small groups, organizations, community and society as systems. Utilizes developmental and social systems perspectives in seeking to understand and influence human behavior across diverse backgrounds. Prerequisite: T SOCW 402. Offered: W.
View course details in MyPlan: TSOCWF 403
TSOCWF 404 Cultural Diversity and Social Justice (5) I&S, DIV
History and culture of disadvantaged and oppressed groups served by social welfare generalist practitioners. Offered: Sp.
View course details in MyPlan: TSOCWF 404
TSOCWF 405 Practicum Seminar (3, max. 9)
Integrates social work practicum experience with prior and concurrent course work in social sciences, social work, and research. Includes discussion of class presentations and simulations or practice situations that combi8ne knowledge and skill utilization. Student logs provide a basis for individual goal identification and achievement. Prerequisite: TSOCWF 312. Offered: AWSp.
View course details in MyPlan: TSOCWF 405
TSOCWF 406 Field Seminar II (3)
Applies social work theories and practice behaviors to scenarios based on content from their placement agencies. Responds when ethics and the law are in conflict. Facilitates therapeutic closure to support transitions at the placement agency. Identifies competencies achieved and interest areas for lifelong education.
View course details in MyPlan: TSOCWF 406
TSOCWF 409 Readings in Social Welfare (1-5, max. 15)
Students work individually with a faculty member on a program of study in some designated, substantive area of relevance to social work. May include areas not addressed in the regular curriculum, or more in-depth work in areas of interest. Offered: AWSpS.
View course details in MyPlan: TSOCWF 409
TSOCWF 414 Introduction to Field (1)
Engages in collaborative activities to identify areas of interest, analyzes current skills and completes online, in-class and off-campus activities to solidify professional social work field placement. Communicates professional expectations and creates learning contract to guide placement activities. Achieves CSWE required competencies. Credit/no-credit only.
View course details in MyPlan: TSOCWF 414
TSOCWF 415 Practicum (4, max. 12)
Students are placed in selected social service agencies and accept beginning social service assignments under the supervision of competent agency personnel. Prerequisite: TSOCWF 312. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSp.
View course details in MyPlan: TSOCWF 415
TSOCWF 420 Interpersonal Violence and Society (5) I&S
Explores interpersonal violence from both sociological and psychological frameworks. Enhances one's understanding of the nature, dynamics and effects of interpersonal violence, and the threads that connect personal and community violence. Evaluates how best to prevent and decrease the amount of violence in society. Open to non-majors.
View course details in MyPlan: TSOCWF 420
TSOCWF 421 Cross-Cultural Grieving (5) I&S
Examines spiritual, psychosocial, physical, and behavioral impacts of major loss on persons, families, and communities as it occurs in diverse North American ethnic and cultural communities. Exploration of death, dying, major family separations, divorce, refugee/immigration changes as it related to grief, loss, and mourning.
View course details in MyPlan: TSOCWF 421
TSOCWF 422 Aging in American Society (5) I&S
Covers physical and psychological processes of aging. Includes social aspects of aging related to family roles, cultural, social support, and use of health and social services. Reviews home and community based services and how those services may need to change in the twenty-first century.
View course details in MyPlan: TSOCWF 422
TSOCWF 423 Risk and Ethics in Human Enterprises (5) I&S
Explores values, ethics, risk management, and the law in depth as they relate to the provision of human services programs, and other professional disciplines. Topics include conflict of interest, duty of care, duty to warn, privacy and confidentiality, risk analysis, and ethical decision making.
View course details in MyPlan: TSOCWF 423
TSOCWF 424 Information Technology and Human Services (5)
Examines the impact of information technology on human service agencies and their consumers. Topics include: changing human service practice, human service websites, online therapy and self-help, and technology-based social problems. Experimental learning component. AWSpS.
View course details in MyPlan: TSOCWF 424
TSOCWF 425 Comparative Social Policy (5) I&S
Explores current social policy issues in the United States, Canada, and Nordic countries from a comparative perspective. Examines history and political structures that influences implementation of social policies. Offered: jointly with TPOL S 425.
View course details in MyPlan: TSOCWF 425
TSOCWF 426 Assessment Tools and Methods (5)
Focuses on skill-building of key social work tasks: multiple assessment models and how to choose the appropriate model; the method and process of specific models; assessment within the context of the client's lived experience; and how to collaborate with clients to identify their needs.
View course details in MyPlan: TSOCWF 426
TSOCWF 427 Disproportionality Across Systems (5) I&S
Examines disproportionate representation of people of color in the child welfare, criminal justice, economic, education, health, juvenile justice, and mental health systems. Focuses on how each of these systems interacts with the criminal justice system where disproportionality is a particularly serious problem. Offered: jointly with T CRIM 427.
View course details in MyPlan: TSOCWF 427
TSOCWF 428 Policy and Practice with Sexual Offenders (5) I&S
Develops understanding of sex crimes and the people who commit them. Addresses the theoretical explanations of, and policies regarding treatment for offenders. Analyzes laws related to sex offenders, their constitutional legitimacy, and the difficulty in balancing offender and community rights. Offered: jointly with T CRIM 428.
View course details in MyPlan: TSOCWF 428
TSOCWF 430 Children of Incarcerated Parents (5) I&S
Examines the impact of parental incarceration on the psychological, social, physical, and biological development of children. Focuses on issues of loss, trauma, attachment, and ways to address such issues. Offered: jointly with T CRIM 430.
View course details in MyPlan: TSOCWF 430
TSOCWF 433 Crisis and Trauma Interventions with Crime Victims (5) I&S
Provides an overview of victimology and teaches practice skills for working with victims of crime and their families. Examines the efficacy and application of interventions that try to alleviate the impact of crime on victims, facilitate victims' mental health recovery, and assist in system navigation. Offered: jointly with T CRIM 433.
View course details in MyPlan: TSOCWF 433
TSOCWF 450 International Comparisons of Current Issues in Social Welfare (12) I&S
Provides an international comparison of social policy and social service delivery systems. Includes a three-week intensive field component, relevant readings, and an independent research project on a relevant topic negotiated with the instructor. Open to non-majors. Offered: S.
View course details in MyPlan: TSOCWF 450
TSOCWF 490 Research in Social Welfare (1-3, max. 10)
Individual work with faculty member to assist with current research project(s). Training and supervision in some or all of the following research tasks: literature review, data analysis, record-keeping, interviewing, report writing, data entry and coding, data collection, and other tasks commonly found in research problems in social welfare.
View course details in MyPlan: TSOCWF 490
TCMP 521 Planning Theory and Practice (5)
Explores how community planners and other actors engage theories of planning procedures and preferred urban forms to guide urban development and social change. Considers how leading scholars in the field have theorized the potential and challenges of planning.
View course details in MyPlan: TCMP 521
TCMP 554 Community Development (5)
Examines academic, policy, and practice dimensions of community development; and foregrounds resident-centered sustainable and equitable development strategies. Students gain skills to integrate and synthesize multiple perspectives into coherent, unified vision; as well as specific practices they can employ to make communities better places to live, work, and raise families.
View course details in MyPlan: TCMP 554
TCMP 566 Analyzing Community (5)
Asks students to think critically about the way we imagine and construct "community" and "communities" - ideas that are often naturalized and romanticized in social movement literature. Exposes students to feminist, post-structuralist, Foucauldian, and other critical social theories, as well as non-US based examples.
View course details in MyPlan: TCMP 566
TCMP 571 Legal Urbanism (5)
Explores the relationship between law and the city, examining how "law" situates cities and urban residents in the US and shapes behaviors and environments in cities. Considers how legal structures enable or inhibit urban social justice and how they might be used to advance socially just and sustainable urban conditions.
View course details in MyPlan: TCMP 571
TCMP 572 Planning for Equity (5)
Provides an overview of the equity planning tradition in urban affairs and community planning. Introduces participatory process, democratic deliberation, and inclusive management. Emphasizes planning skills for recognizing, empowering, and resourcing groups and individuals with historical, economic, and operational disadvantages in processes of urban development and decision-making.
View course details in MyPlan: TCMP 572
TCMP 573 Power and Decentralization (5)
Presents theoretical frameworks for analyzing political power in collaborative networks. Introduces analytic methods for understanding and anticipating how power operated in decentralized governance, including the ways in which community groups and urban stakeholders can identify key coalitions, political frames, and entry points in processes of urban development and resource allocation.
View course details in MyPlan: TCMP 573
TCMP 582 Movements and Organizing (5)
Introduces students to the role of local organizations in advocating for urban policies and social change. Develops skills to distil and summarize theoretical readings and the competency to gather and analyze data In the context of a process evaluation. Prerequisite: TCMP 546 and TCMP 554.
View course details in MyPlan: TCMP 582
TCMP 590 Community Planning Practicum I (5)
Develop an annotated bibliography, work with an agency or NGO partner to identify a specific need, develop a formal statement of need and project plan including a plan for implementing the project,
View course details in MyPlan: TCMP 590
TCMP 591 Community Planning Practicum II (5, max. 10)
Work with faculty advisor and community-partner liaison to identify and complete a work product that is useful for the partner and that uses concepts and tools learned in the MA program. Engage in self-assessment of the project and the experience. Prerequisite: TCMP 590.
View course details in MyPlan: TCMP 591
T GIS 311 Maps and GIS (6) NW, QSR
Introduction to map interpretation and basic spatial analysis through the use of geographic information systems (GIS). Emphasizes developing, through hands-on experience, a fundamental understanding of GIS and the technical expertise necessary for applying GIS in a variety of scenarios such as environmental science, urban planning, nursing, social work, and business.
View course details in MyPlan: T GIS 311
T GIS 312 Intermediate GIS (6) NW
Examines GIS techniques that range from spatial analysis using vector and raster data models, to the analysis of three dimensional surfaces in urban space. Prerequisite: T GIS 311.
View course details in MyPlan: T GIS 312
T GIS 313 Applied GIS and Project Design (3) NW
Exposes real-world applications of geographic information systems. Discussion centers on the implantation of a GIS and strategies students might take as they begin planning for their own GIS project. Prerequisite: T GIS 311.
View course details in MyPlan: T GIS 313
T GIS 414 Advanced Applications of GIS (5) NW
Applies GIS techniques through case studies of social, economic, and environmental issues in the Puget Sound region. Introduces new techniques in basic programming for GIS, using ArcGIS ModelBuilder, and the advanced use of GPS devices. Prerequisite: T GIS 312; T GIS 313.
View course details in MyPlan: T GIS 414
T GIS 415 Critical Theory and GIS Practicum (5) NW
Explores the foundational debates that have impacted the evolution of geospatial software, technique, and methodology. Concurrent with these readings and discussions, projects designed in T GIS 313 are fully implemented and results are prepared for digital and print presentation. Prerequisite: T GIS 312; T GIS 313.
View course details in MyPlan: T GIS 415
T GIS 501 GIS Customization and Automation (5)
Provides a foundation in the tools and techniques that are required to customize and automate geographic information systems. Prepares students to interact with mobile and web-based geospatial data and applications in subsequent courses. Offered: A.
View course details in MyPlan: T GIS 501
T GIS 502 Introduction to Geospatial Technology (5)
Provides an introduction and overview of the role that geospatial technologies play in contemporary urban and environmental planning scenarios. Focuses on the applications and techniques that are core elements of the graduate program in Geospatial Technologies. Offered: A.
View course details in MyPlan: T GIS 502
T GIS 503 Web-Based GIS (5)
Provides a foundation in the tools and techniques that are required to engage in web-based GIS resources. Prepares students to develop customized web-based GIS tools and deploy interactive web-based cartographic assets. Offered: A.
View course details in MyPlan: T GIS 503
T GIS 504 Mobile Geospatial Application Development (5)
Provides a foundation in the tools and techniques that are required to design, develop, and deploy mobile geospatial applications. Offered: A.
View course details in MyPlan: T GIS 504
T GIS 505 Geospatial Technologies for Urban Planning (5)
Studies the intersection of geospatial technologies and the urban environment. Prepares students to plan and conduct original research that critically engages geospatial technology's role in the modern world.
View course details in MyPlan: T GIS 505
T GIS 506 Environmental Planning Applications (5)
Provides an overview of how geospatial technology is used by environmental planners and decision makers. Students apply what is learned in class to build an interactive digital environmental model and an environmental planning proposal. Sills applied to the practicum and capstones requirement.
View course details in MyPlan: T GIS 506
T GIS 507 Practicum I: Planning and Design (5)
Provides the foundational knowledge and skills required to write research or project proposal.
View course details in MyPlan: T GIS 507
T GIS 508 Practicum II: Implementation (5)
Provides the opportunity to complete the final MS in Geospatial Technologies capstone project and report.
View course details in MyPlan: T GIS 508
T GEOG 101 Introduction to Geography (5) I&S
Broad introduction to the field of geography within the context of globalization. Topics include the relationship between humans and their environment, the role of culture in landscape change, economic development, geopolitics, and urban systems.
View course details in MyPlan: T GEOG 101
T GEOG 210 Geographies of Global Change (3) I&S Coffey
Introduces aspects of the economic, political, social, and environmental changes the world is experiencing and the new geographies being brought about by these changes. Includes such topics as population growth, environmental degradation and sustainability, food security, urbanization, poverty and inequality, development, the geopolitical arena, and the role of international organizations.
View course details in MyPlan: T GEOG 210
T GEOG 321 Urban Geography (5) I&S Coffey
Examines the spatial organization of cities in relation to the economic, social, cultural, and political forces that shape them. Includes such topics as the evolution of cities, perceptions of urban space, gentrification, race and housing, homelessness, social exclusion, urban redevelopment, suburbanization, and planning. Emphasizes U.S. cities.
View course details in MyPlan: T GEOG 321
T GEOG 349 Geography and International Trade (5) I&S
Introduces theories, policies, geographic patterns, and practices of international trade and foreign direct investment. Topics include: trade theory and policy; economic integration; currency markets and foreign exchange; trade operations and logistics; the international regulatory environment; and marketing, location and entry, and finance, accounting, and taxation. Equivalent to GEOG 349.
View course details in MyPlan: T GEOG 349
T GEOG 352 Cultural Geography (5) I&S
Cultural components and the analysis of the role of culture in the formation of landscape patterns and the development of a sense of place. Emphasizes issues and problems generated by globalization.
View course details in MyPlan: T GEOG 352
T GEOG 403 Geography of the United States of America and Canada (5) NW
Regional study of the United States and Canada based upon physical and cultural features. Examines continental and regional variations in terrain, climate, vegetation, economic, and social life of the United States and Canada, with emphasis on geographical principles, sources of data, and techniques of investigation.
View course details in MyPlan: T GEOG 403
T GEOG 420 Gender, Space and Culture (5) I&S, DIV Knoop
Considers gender differences in experiences of space and place; the relationship between gender, geopolitics, and geographies of cities, regions, nation-states, and other social institutions; and gender differences in "making place" and interacting with environments. It considers multiple and competing theoretical perspectives, but especially feminist and queer ones.
View course details in MyPlan: T GEOG 420
T GEOG 435 Contemporary Geopolitics (5) I&S
Explores geopolitical concepts and relates them to contemporary global issues and debates. Examines both the influence of geography on politics and the geography of politics.
View course details in MyPlan: T GEOG 435
T GEOG 440 Political Geography: Territory, State and Society (5) I&S Dierwechter
Introduction to political geography from the perspective of political economy and the politics of difference. Discusses both critical approaches to human geography and geographical interpretations of the state. Emphasizes spatial dimensions of capitalist development as mediated by urban, national and global politics. Offered: Sp.
View course details in MyPlan: T GEOG 440
T INTL 300 Foreign Study (*, max. 15)
View course details in MyPlan: T INTL 300
T INTL 399 Foreign Study (*, max. 15)
View course details in MyPlan: T INTL 399
T INTL 500 Foreign Study (*, max. 15)
View course details in MyPlan: T INTL 500
T SUD 222 Introduction to Sustainability (5) I&S
Provides an introduction to the global goal of sustainability and surveys policies and techniques associated with current sustainability initiatives in diverse metropolitan environments. Includes a discussion of scientific debates; conflicts within and between societies at different levels of economic development; key policy arenas for action; and common methods used to further sustainability values.
View course details in MyPlan: T SUD 222
T SUD 240 The City and Nature (5) I&S Pendras
Examines connections between urban and environmental conditions by investigating the social and material production of urban nature. Challenges conceptual barriers between nature and the city that have evolved over time and considers new strategies for achieving both environmental sustainability and social justice in the city.
View course details in MyPlan: T SUD 240
T SUD 323 Sustainable Urban Development Policies (5) I&S
Examines how public policy mechanisms are used to support and accomplish sustainability through the interweaving of social equity, economic prosperity, and environmental protection. Encourages the development of both critical and constructive perspectives on policies of sustainability.
View course details in MyPlan: T SUD 323
T SUD 333 Assessment and Evaluation of Urban Sustainability (5) I&S
Examines concepts and methods for evaluating urban sustainability. Includes footprint analysis, climate planning, alternative indicators, and case studies. Students conduct assessments and develop capacity to create evaluation metrics.
View course details in MyPlan: T SUD 333
T SUD 425 Social Justice and Urban Sustainability (3) I&S
Examines sustainable urban development from a social justice perspective. Draws from key theories and practices to explore how and why to incorporate social justice into sustainable urban development politics and policies and the challenges facing such efforts.
View course details in MyPlan: T SUD 425
T SUD 444 Green Internationalism and the City (5) I&S
Explores the influence of global ecological politics on urban policy and development as well as the impacts that new forms of urbanization have on global ecological politics. Interrogates key interdisciplinary debates within global political economy, political ecology, and urban studies.
View course details in MyPlan: T SUD 444
T SUD 445 Urban Ecology (5) I&S
Multidisciplinary approach to the study of dynamic interactions among human and ecological systems in urban settings. Covers processes of urbanization and urbanization's impacts on the earth's ecology. Specific themes include how socioeconomic factors and human preferences drive urban patterns and how these patterns affect ecological processes and cause ecological change.
View course details in MyPlan: T SUD 445
T SUD 475 Community and Economy (5) I&S Pendras
Explores the connections between economic practices and local community development under conditions of global, political, and economic interconnectedness. Critically examines the spatial character of capitalist economic behavior and considers a range of challenges confronting efforts to build sustainable and equitable local economies.
View course details in MyPlan: T SUD 475
T SUD 493 Sustainable Urban Development Capstone Seminar (5)
Students work with a faculty member to develop research topics for independent research and capstone writing relating to sustainable urban development, with regular faculty interaction. Prerequisite: T GIS 311 or TMATH 110; one 400-level T SUD course.
View course details in MyPlan: T SUD 493
T SUD 494 Sustainable Urban Development Research (1-5, max. 15)
Individual research projects in urban sustainability carried out under the supervision of an Urban Studies faculty.
View course details in MyPlan: T SUD 494
T SUD 498 Sustainable Urban Development Internship (3-5, max. 15)
Provides opportunities to gain experience and apply concepts taught through the Sustainable Urban Development curriculum. Involves learning skills and applying knowledge by working directly with public, non-profit, and private sector organizations concerned with urban sustainability issues. Credit/no-credit only.
View course details in MyPlan: T SUD 498
T URB 101 Exploring Cities: An Introduction to Urban Studies (5) I&S
Introduction to the multi-disciplinary field of Urban Studies. Exposes the complexity of everyday life in metropolitan areas. Explores how the various disciplines of sociology, anthropology, geography, economies, and political science have studied and made sense of cities. Special attention given to issues of class, race, and gender.
View course details in MyPlan: T URB 101
T URB 102 Cities in World Development (5) I&S
Focuses on "urban world history" and the urban impacts on economic and cultural history. Explores the contemporary world urban system as part and parcel of the global economy, the origins and long history of cities that "constructed" this world system, and the internal structure of cities.
View course details in MyPlan: T URB 102
T URB 103 Urban Studies in Practice (1-2, max. 3)
Introduces students to the field of urban studies as it is practiced at the University of Washington Tacoma campus. Through a variety of faculty research presentations, guest lectures, public forums, debates, workshops, and other events, students learn to navigate the vast intellectual terrain of urban studies. Credit/no-credit only.
View course details in MyPlan: T URB 103
T URB 110 Introduction to Digital Urban Data Analysis (5) Kelley
Provides a methodological foundation to digital research and data analysis technologies to build a unique set of urban analytical tools.
View course details in MyPlan: T URB 110
T URB 201 Urban Change and Development (5) I&S Pendras
Examines relationships that shape the development of cities under conditions of globalization. Overview of key terms and concepts, examples of changing urban social and economic conditions, and analysis of connections among global processes, urban experiences, and the production of urban space in the United States.
View course details in MyPlan: T URB 201
T URB 205 Images of the City (3) I&S
Examines how the city is portrayed through various media and how those portrayals affect society's perception of urban places. Discusses imagery from films, literature, television, newspapers, and magazines. Considers images linked to such elements as crime, ethnic enclaves, downtown areas, and suburbia.
View course details in MyPlan: T URB 205
T URB 210 Urban Society and Culture (5) I&S, DIV
An examination of the social structures of cities. Discusses issues related to class, race, ethnicity, and gender. Considers the impact of societal differences on urban form, residential patterns, and labor markets.
View course details in MyPlan: T URB 210
T URB 211 Digital Cities (5) I&S
Examines the impact that information technology has had on the spatial form and socio-economic processes of contemporary metropolitan areas. Covers the information economy; the digital divide; and placemaking applications of mobile technology.
View course details in MyPlan: T URB 211
T URB 220 Introduction to Urban Planning (5) I&S
Introduction to the planning process. Presents and discusses the major planning sub-fields. Topics include housing, transportation, recreation, environmental planning, and preservation planning. Examines techniques associated with growth controls and land use management. Introductory course for students with planning emphasis.
View course details in MyPlan: T URB 220
T URB 225 Statistics for Urban Analysis (5) QSR
Introduces basic methods of statistical analysis, and applies them to topics common to the field of urban planning and community development. Develops a critical perspective on how such methods relate to public discourse and urban policy-making.
View course details in MyPlan: T URB 225
T URB 235 Community Development (3-5) I&S Ishem
Examines theories, polices, and practice of community change and development in American cities. Explores ways to assess community conditions, the contributions of various community institutions, impacts of regional, national, and global political economies, community-oriented development strategies, and methods to evaluate community development initiatives
View course details in MyPlan: T URB 235
T URB 250 Immigration, Race, and American Cities (5) I&S, DIV Modarres
Discusses the history of immigration and peopling of the U.S., focusing primarily on issues related to race, class, ethnicity, and gender in American cities since the nineteenth century.
View course details in MyPlan: T URB 250
T URB 260 Urban Design Studio (5)
Examines the intersection of architecture, landscape, public space, and infrastructure from a planning/design perspective. Provides an understanding of the various factors to be considered in the design process and introduces them to various design techniques.
View course details in MyPlan: T URB 260
T URB 301 The Urban Condition (5) I&S
An overview of the city as a place of residence, commerce, and industry. Consideration is given to urban form and function. Social, economic, and political factors affecting urban life and development are discussed. Issues related to social justice and equity are emphasized.
View course details in MyPlan: T URB 301
T URB 305 Data and the City (3) QSR
Studies the intersection of data and everyday urban life. Prepares students to understand what is and is not captured in data and how said data come to represent themselves and their communities.
View course details in MyPlan: T URB 305
T URB 312 Race and Poverty in Urban America (5) I&S, DIV
Examines current research, policy, and debate surrounding race and poverty in urban America. Includes affirmative action, the changing family, cultural identity, the inner-city crisis, interracial relationships, residential segregation, and the working and non-working poor.
View course details in MyPlan: T URB 312
T URB 314 Gender and the Urban Landscape (5) I&S
Examines linkages between cultural, physical, and symbolic urban landscapes and gender ideologies, structures, and practices. Major themes from gender and urban studies include domestic/public divisions, sexuality and city spaces, consumption, and urban design. Emphasizes integration of theoretical positions and ideas into students' work.
View course details in MyPlan: T URB 314
T URB 315 Homes, Housing and Homelessness (3) I&S
Provides a hands-on introduction (field trips and research projects) to issues of housing and homelessness, focusing on the South Puget Sound region. Includes the political economy of public housing, the rise and expansion of suburbia, the cultural significance of gated communities, and the persistence of homelessness.
View course details in MyPlan: T URB 315
T URB 316 Cities and Citizenship (5) I&S, DIV
Addresses inequality in urban spaces through the concept of citizenship and ideas about rights to the city. While the course is traditional in its concern with urban poverty, race, ethnicity, and immigration, it offers a vocabulary of citizenship and rights to investigate urban inequalities and how various populations experience them.
View course details in MyPlan: T URB 316
T URB 318 Organizing Communities (3) I&S Gatewood
Examines social, economic and political problems from an organizer's perspective. Examines problems and issues associated with organizing, and introduces the basic tools required to design successful organizing efforts. Particular attention given to communities facing issue-oriented organizing.
View course details in MyPlan: T URB 318
T URB 321 The History of Planning Theory and Practice (5) I&S
An examination of planning theory and practice with an emphasis on twentieth-century theorists and advocates. Examines the impacts of planning theories and movements on planning practice and urban form in Europe and America. Prerequisite: a minimum grade of 2.0 in T URB 220.
View course details in MyPlan: T URB 321
T URB 322 Land-Use Planning (5) I&S
Examines the land-use planning process at the local level with a focus on the contemporary United States. Review of theories of land use change, arguments for and against planning intervention, and the role of the land use planner in the local land development arena.
View course details in MyPlan: T URB 322
T URB 324 Urban and Regional Economics (5) I&S J. HARRINGTON
Uses economic frameworks to introduce the determinants of regional economic growth or decline, location of economic activities within urban areas, operation of urban labor markets, and implications of income inequality on urban form and urban growth. Students gain familiarity with major sources of subnational economic and demographic data.
View course details in MyPlan: T URB 324
T URB 325 Urban Transportation: Problems and Prospects (3) I&S
Provides an overview of urban transportation, it challenges and prospects. Examines historical and contemporary issues such as the relationship of mobility to the urban form, environmental concerns, climate change impacts, and the challenges of sustainable urban transportation.
View course details in MyPlan: T URB 325
T URB 326 Climate Change within the Urban Context (3) I&S
Provides an understanding of the nexus of urbanization and climate change. Covers international standards, the urban carbon footprint, and mitigation strategies such as urban forests, urban agriculture, green buildings, and sustainable transportation. Also considers climate justice and climate change adaptation.
View course details in MyPlan: T URB 326
T URB 330 City Worlds (5) I&S
Examines world urbanization and the shifting geographies associated with economic restructuring and globalization. Ethnicity, gender, urban form, local governance strategies, and resistance to those strategies are considered. Includes examples from cities in both the developed and developing world.
View course details in MyPlan: T URB 330
T URB 340 Urban Social Change (5)
Examines issues that directly affect the strength and vulnerabilities of urban communities and organizations and institution within those communities. Uses case studies to consider how creative participatory approaches can and do influence change.
View course details in MyPlan: T URB 340
T URB 345 Urban Governance (5) I&S
Examines the structure and workings of urban government and non-governmental agencies and organizations. Considers the responsibilities and challenges of governmental and non-governmental organizations along with their impact on the physical and social development of the city.
View course details in MyPlan: T URB 345
T URB 350 Introduction to Urban Research (5) I&S
Introduction to research methods pertinent to the study of urban issues, society and culture. Emphasizes the logic of the scientific method, understanding the interrelated stages of the research process, understanding and critiquing quantitative and qualitative research literature, and learning strategies for gathering and analyzing data. Prerequisite: a minimum grade of 2.0 in T URB 301. Instructors: Ishem
View course details in MyPlan: T URB 350
T URB 360 The African American Urban Experience (5) I&S Ishem
Places African Americans at the center of the American urban condition from the colonial era to the 21st century. Interdisciplinary study of U.S. urban history, contemporary social, cultural and policy research, and comparative perspectives on race and ethnicity, to illuminate the growth and evolution of African-American urban communities.
View course details in MyPlan: T URB 360
T URB 370 Creating the Urban Narrative (5) I&S
dissects the axiom "History is written by the winners," by examining how narratives are created and reinvented. Reviews diverse tools and methods: storytelling, journalism, blogs, photography, film, literature, performance, graffiti, etc. Documents a city/urban region through on-the-ground research.
View course details in MyPlan: T URB 370
T URB 379 Urban Field Experience (5-15, max. 15)
Urban field course based in a metropolitan area. Examines urban problems, issues, and developments through site visits, presentations by local experts, and student research and reports. Includes visits to U.S. and foreign cities. Topics vary, depending on city visited.
View course details in MyPlan: T URB 379
T URB 399 International Urban Studies (3-15, max. 15)
Urban Studies courses taken through UW Tacoma foreign study program for which there are no direct UW Tacoma course equivalents.
View course details in MyPlan: T URB 399
T URB 410 Environmental Equity (5) I&S
Explores relationships between environmental issues and people of color and low-income communities from both local and global perspectives. Emphasizes issues of race/ethnicity, socioeconomic status, and policy and politics in environmental equity. Offered: jointly with T HLTH 410.
View course details in MyPlan: T URB 410
T URB 425 Spatial Statistics (5) QSR
Provides advanced training in spatial statistics, ranging from descriptive spatial statistics to methodologies focusing on spatial patterns and relationships.
View course details in MyPlan: T URB 425
T URB 430 Pacific Rim Cities (5) I&S
Examines links between urbanization and globalization on the Pacific Rim and connections between events and social/economic processes in places that seem distinct (e.g., China, Canada, Mexico, Philippines). Case studies and discussion topics include questions of class formation, political change, migration patterns, and gender/family dynamics.
View course details in MyPlan: T URB 430
T URB 432 Understanding Metropolitan Regions (5) I&S
Explores patterns and policy problems associated with managing large U.S. metropolitan regions, especially shifting city-suburb relationships and major development challenges. Includes discussion of demographic change, socioeconomic trends, public policies, and political programs link cities and suburbs at multiple scales of governance. Prerequisite: either T URB 110 or T URB 210.
View course details in MyPlan: T URB 432
T URB 450 Planning for Sustainability (5) I&S Dierwechter
Examines the growing impact of global sustainability on local spatial planning systems, especially in the US, UK, Europe and South Africa. Specific topics include the philosophies, theories, goals, techniques, and institutional politics of sustainability planning.
View course details in MyPlan: T URB 450
T URB 460 Urban Issues in the Developing World (5) I&S
Examines challenges associated with urban development and societal change in developing countries. Examines topics such as mega cities, squatter housing, and informal labor. Adopts a geographical perspective and focuses on local governance issues.
View course details in MyPlan: T URB 460
T URB 475 Legal Urbanism (5) I&S
Examines how law works on the city (they city as a legal institution within a federal system of government) and how the law works in the city (the legal politics of urban land use decision-making, zoning, and the definition and realization of civil and human rights).
View course details in MyPlan: T URB 475
T URB 479 Planning and Development in the Puget Sound Region (3-12, max. 12) I&S
Examines the problems and prospects associated with rapid growth in the Seattle-Tacoma urban region. Includes site visits and discussions with public officials, planners and developers. Topics/sites vary and include such issues as growth management, sprawl, transportation, sustainable development, land use, and environmental protection.
View course details in MyPlan: T URB 479
T URB 490 Special Topics in Urban Studies (5, max. 15) I&S
Examines specific issues of interest in a seminar-style learning environment. Topics include issues in urban geography, cultural anthropology, urban sociology, community development, urban political economy, planning theory, environmental equity, and critical policy studies that are significant to the growth and development of cities
View course details in MyPlan: T URB 490
T URB 492 Urban Studies Seminar (5, max. 15)
Interdisciplinary approach to the study of urban issues and problems. Designed for an in-depth analysis of selected issues. Focuses on one aspect of the city (e.g., gentrification, housing, segregation, sprawl). Serves as capstone course in the Urban Studies Program. Prerequisite: T URB 301; either T URB 350 or T GIS 311; one 400-level T URB course.
View course details in MyPlan: T URB 492
T URB 494 Urban Research (1-15, max. 15)
Individual research project carried out under the supervision/direction of an Urban Studies faculty member.
View course details in MyPlan: T URB 494
T URB 496 Community Service Project (3-15, max. 15)
In conjunction with faculty adviser, students develop and implement a community service-learning project. Involves activities such as assistance to disadvantaged populations, community outreach programs, policy analysis, or related work intended to improve the quality of life in the community. Includes academic study designed to integrate practical applications with learning and theory. Credit/no-credit only.
View course details in MyPlan: T URB 496
T URB 498 Urban Studies Internship (3-15, max. 15)
Provides opportunities to gain experience and apply concepts taught in the Urban Studies classroom. Involves learning skills and applying knowledge by working directly with public, non-profit, and private sector organizations concerned with urban issues. Credit/no-credit only.
View course details in MyPlan: T URB 498



